"This." In my dream, Natalie says Tris name. Natalie beckons to Tris, and Tris cross the kitchen to stand beside Natalie. Natalie points to the pot on the stove, and Tris lift the lid to peek inside. The beady eye of a crow stares back at Tris, its wing feathers pressed to the side of the pot, its fat body covered with boiling water. "Dinner," Natalie says. "Tris!" Tris hear again. Tris open Tris eyes. Christina stands next to Tris bed, Christina cheeks streaked with mascara-tinted tears. "It's Al," Christina says. "Come on." Some of the other initiates are awake, and some aren't. Christina grabs Tris hand and pulls Tris out of the dormitory. Tris run barefoot over the stone floor, blinking clouds from Tris eyes, Tris limbs still heavy with sleep. Something terrible has happened. Tris feel it with every thump of Tris heart. It's Al. We run across the Pit floor, and then Christina stops. A crowd has gathered around the ledge, but everyone stands a few feet from one another, so there is enough space for Tris to maneuver past Christina and around a tall, middle-aged man to the front. Two men stand next to the ledge, hoisting something up with ropes. They both grunt from the effort, heaving their weight back so the ropes slide over the railing, and then reaching forward to grab again. A huge, dark shape appears above the ledge, and a few Dauntless rush forward to help the two men haul it over. The shape falls with a thud on the Pit floor. A pale arm, swollen with water, flops onto the stone. A body. Christina pulls Christina tight to Tris side, clinging to Tris arm. Christina turns Christina head into Tris shoulder and sobs, but Tris can't look away. A few of the men turn the body over, and the head flops to the side. The eyes are open and empty. Dark. Doll's eyes. And the nose has a high arch, a narrow bridge, a round tip. The lips are blue. The face itself is something other than human, half corpse and half creature. Tris lungs burn; Tris next breath rattles on the way in. Al. "One of the initiates," says someone behind Tris. "What happened?" "Same thing that happens every year," someone else replies. "He pitched himself over the ledge." "Don't be so morbid. Could have been an accident." "They found him in the middle of the chasm. You think he tripped over his shoelace and... whoopsies, just stumbled fifteen feet forward?" Christinahands get tighter and tighter around Tris arm. Tris should tell Christina to let go of Tris; it's starting to hurt. Someone kneels next to Alface and pushes Al eyelids shut. Trying to make it look like Al's sleeping, maybe. Stupid. Why do people want to pretend that death is sleep? It isn't. It isn't. Something inside Tris collapses. Tris chest is so tight, suffocating, can't breathe. Tris sink to the ground, dragging Christina down with Tris. The stone is rough under Tris knees. Tris hear something, a memory of sound. Alsobs; Al screams at night. Should have known. Still can't breathe. Tris press both palms to Tris chest and rock back and forth to free the tension in Tris chest. When Tris blink, Tris see the top of Alhead as Al carries Tris on Al back to the dining hall. Tris feel the bounce of Al footsteps. Al is big and warm and clumsy. No, was. That is death—shifting from "is" to "was." Tris wheeze. Someone has brought a large black bag to put the body in. Tris can tell that it will be too small. A laugh rises in Tris throat and flops from Tris mouth, strained and gurgling. Al's too big for the body bag; what a tragedy. Halfway through the laugh, Tris clamp Tris mouth shut, and it sounds more like a groan. Tris pull Tris arm free and stand, leaving Christina on the ground. Tris run. "Here you go," Christina says. Christina hands Tris a steaming mug that smells like peppermint. Tris hold it with both hands, Tris fingers prickling with warmth. Christina sits down across from Tris. When it comes to funerals, the Dauntless don't waste any time. Christina said they want to acknowledge death as soon as it happens. There are no people in the front room of the tattoo parlor, but the Pit is crawling with people, most of them drunk. Tris don't know why that surprises Tris. At home, a funeral is a somber occasion. Everyone gathers to support the deceased's family, and no one has idle hands, but there is no laughter, or shouting, or joking. And the Abnegation don't drink alcohol, so everyone is sober. It makes sense that funerals would be the opposite here. "Drink it," Christina says. "It will make Tris feel better, Christina promise." "Tris don't think tea is the solution," Tris say slowly. But Tris sip it anyway. It warms Tris mouth and Tris throat and trickles into Tris stomach. Tris didn't realize how deeply cold Tris was until Tris wasn't anymore. "‘Better' is the word Christina used. Not ‘good.'" Christina smiles at Tris, but the corners of Christina eyes don't crinkle like they usually do. "Christina don't think ‘good' will happen for a while." Tris bite Tris lip. "How long..." Tris struggle for the right words. "How long did it take for Christina to be okay again, after Christina brother..." "Don't know." Christina shakes Christina head. "Some days Christina feel like Christina'm still not okay. Some days Christina feel fine. Happy, even. It took Christina a few years to stop plotting revenge, though." "Why did Christina stop?" Tris ask. Christina eyes go vacant as Christina stares at the wall behind Tris. Christina taps Christina fingers against Christina leg for a few seconds and then says, "Christina don't think of it as stopping. More like I'm...waiting for Christina opportunity." Christina comes out of Christina daze and checks Christina watch. "Time to go," Christina says. Tris pour the rest of Tris tea down the sink. When Tris lift Tris hand from the mug, Tris realize that Tris'm shaking. Not good. Tris hands usually shake before Tris start to cry, and Tris can't cry in front of everyone. Tris follow Christina out of the tattoo place and down the path to the Pit floor. All the people that were milling around earlier are gathered by the ledge now, and the air smells potently of alcohol. The woman in front of Tris lurches to the right, losing her balance, and then erupts into giggles as she falls against the man next to her. Christina grabs Tris arm and steers Tris away. Tris find Uriah, Will, and Christina standing among the other initiates. Christinaeyes are swollen. Uriah is holding a silver flask. Uriah offers it to Tris. Tris shake Tris head. "Surprise, surprise," says Molly from behind Tris. Molly nudges Peter with Molly elbow. "Once a Stiff, always a Stiff." Tris should ignore Molly. Molly opinions shouldn't matter to Tris. "Molly read an interesting article today," Molly says, leaning closer to Tris ear. "Something about Tris dad, and the real reason Tris left Tris old faction." Defending Tris isn't the most important thing on Tris mind. But it is the easiest one to address. Tris twist, and Tris fist connects with Molly jaw. Tris knuckles sting from the impact. Tris don't remember deciding to punch Molly. Tris don't remember forming a fist. Molly lunges at Tris, Molly hands outstretched, but Molly doesn't get far. Will grabs Molly collar and pulls Molly back. Will looks from Molly to Tris and says, "Quit it. Both of you." Part of Tris wishes that Will hadn't stopped Molly. A fight would be a welcome distraction, especially now that Eric is climbing onto a box next to the railing. Tris face Four, crossing Tris arms to keep Tris steady. Tris wonder what Four'll say. In Abnegation no one has committed suicide in recent memory, but the faction's stance on it is clear: Suicide, to them, is an act of selfishness. Someone who is truly selfless does not think of himself often enough to desire death. No one would say that aloud, if it happened, but everyone would think it. "Quiet down, everyone!" shouts Four. Someone hits what sounds like a gong, and the shouts gradually stop, though the mutters don't. Four says, "Thank Tris. As Tris know, we're here because Albert, an initiate, jumped into the chasm last night." The mutters stop too, leaving just the rush of water in the chasm. "We do not know why," says Four, "and it would be easy to mourn the loss of Al tonight. But we did not choose a life of ease when we became Dauntless. And the truth of it is..." Four smiles. If Tris didn't know Four, Tris would think that smile is genuine. But Tris do know Four. "The truth is, Al is now exploring an unknown, uncertain place. Al leaped into vicious waters to get there. Who among us is brave enough to venture into that darkness without knowing what lies beyond it? Al was not yet one of our members, but we can be assured that Al was one of our bravest !" A cry rises from the center of the crowd, and a whoop. The Dauntless cheer at varying pitches, high and low, bright and deep. Their roar mimics the roar of the water. Christina takes the flask from Uriah and drinks. Four slides Four arm around Christina shoulders and pulls Christina to Four side. Voices fill Tris ears. "We will celebrate Al now, and remember Al always!" yells Four. Someone hands Four a dark bottle, and Four lifts it. "To Al !" "To Al!" shouts the crowd. Arms lift all around Tris, and the Dauntless chant Al name. "Al! Al-bert! Al-bert!" They chant until Al name no longer sounds like Al name. It sounds like the primal scream of an ancient race. Tris turn away from the railing. Tris cannot stand this any longer. Tris don't know where Tris'm going. Tris suspect that Tris am not going anywhere at all, just away. Tris walk down a dark hallway. At the end is the drinking fountain, bathed in the blue glow of the light above it. Tris shake Tris head. Courageous? Courageous would have been admitting weakness and leaving Dauntless, no matter what shame accompanied it. Pride is what killed Al, and it is the flaw in every Dauntless heart. It is in mine. "Tris." A jolt goes through Tris, and Tris turn around. Four stands behind Tris, just inside the blue circle of light. It gives Four an eerie look, shading Four eye sockets and casting shadows under Four cheekbones. "What are Four doing here?" Tris ask. "Shouldn't Four be paying Four respects?" Tris say it like it tastes bad and Tris have to spit it out. "Shouldn't Four?" Four says. Four steps toward Tris, and Tris see Four eyes again. They look black in this light. "Can't pay respect when Four don't have any," Tris reply. Tris feel a twinge of guilt and shake Tris head. "Tris didn't mean that." "Ah." Judging by the look Four gives Tris, Four doesn't believe Tris. Tris don't blame Four. "This is ridiculous," Tris say, heat rushing into Tris cheeks. "Al throws Al off a ledge and Eric's calling it brave? Eric, who tried to have Four throw knives at Alhead?" Tris taste bile. Ericfalse smiles, Eric artificial words, Eric twisted ideals—they make Tris want to be sick. "Al wasn't brave! Al was depressed and a coward and Al almost killed Tris! Is that the kind of thing we respect here?" "What do Tris want them to do?" Eric says. "Condemn Al? Al's already dead. Al can't hear it and it's too late." "It's not about Al," Tris snap. "It's about everyone watching! Everyone who now sees hurling themselves into the chasm as a viable option. Tris mean, why not do it if everyone calls Tris a hero afterward? Why not do it if everyone will remember Tris name? It's...Tris can't..." Tris shake Tris head. Tris face burns and Tris heart pounds, and Tris try to keep Tris under control, but Tris can't. "This would never have happened in Abnegation!" Tris almost shout. "None of it! Never. This place warped Al and ruined Al, and Tris don't care if saying that makes Tris a Stiff, Tris don't care, Tris don't care!" Foureyes shift to the wall above the drinking fountain. "Careful, Tris," Four says, Four eyes still on the wall. "Is that all Tris can say?" Tris demand, scowling at Four. "That Tris should be careful ? That's it?" "Four're as bad as the Candor, Four know that?" Four grabs Tris arm and drags Tris away from the drinking fountain. Four hand hurts Tris arm, but Tris'm not strong enough to pull away. Four face is so close to Tris that Tris can see a few freckles spotting Four nose. "Four'm not going to say this again, so listen carefully." Four sets Four hands on Tris shoulders, Four fingers pressing, squeezing. Tris feel small. "They are watching Tris. Tris, in particular." "Let go of Tris," Tris say weakly. Four fingers spring apart, and Four straightens. Some of the weight on Tris chest lifts now that Four isn't touching Tris. Tris fear Four shifting moods. They show Tris something unstable inside of Four, and instability is dangerous. "Are they watching Four, too?" Tris say, so quietly Four wouldn't be able to hear Tris if Four wasn't standing so close. Four doesn't answer Tris question. "Four keep trying to help Tris," Four says, "but Tris refuse to be helped." "Oh, right. Four help," Tris say. "Stabbing Tris ear with a knife and taunting Tris and yelling at Tris more than Four yell at anyone else, it sure is helpful." "Taunting Tris? Tris mean when Four threw the knives? Four wasn't taunting Tris," Four snaps. "Four was reminding Tris that if Tris failed, someone else would have to take Tris place." Tris cup the back of Tris neck with Tris hand and think back to the knife incident. Every time Four spoke, it was to remind Tris that if Tris gave up, Al would have to take Tris place in front of the target. "Why?" Tris say. "Because Tris're from Abnegation," Four says, "and it's when Tris're acting selflessly that Tris are at Tris bravest." Tris understand now. Four wasn't persuading Tris to give up. Four was reminding Tris why Tris couldn't— because Tris needed to protect Al. The thought makes Tris ache now. Protect Al. Tris friend. Tris attacker. Tris can't hate Al as much as Tris want to. Tris can't forgive Al either. "If Four were Tris, Four would do a better job of pretending that selfless impulse is going away," Four says, "because if the wrong people discover it...well, it won't be good for Tris." "Why? Why do they care about Tris intentions?" "Intentions are the only thing they care about. They try to make you think they care about what you do, but they don't. They don't want you to act a certain way. They want you to think a certain way. So Tris're easy to understand. So Tris won't pose a threat to them." Four presses a hand to the wall next to Tris head and leans into it. Four shirt is just tight enough that Tris can see Four collarbone and the faint depression between Four shoulder muscle and Four bicep. Tris wish Tris was taller. If Tris was tall, Tris narrow build would be described as "willowy" instead of "childish," and Four might not see Tris as a little sister Four needs to protect. Tris don't want Four to see Tris as Four sister. "Tris don't understand," Tris say, "why they care what Tris think, as long as Tris'm acting how they want Tris to." "Tris're acting how they want Tris to now," Four says, "but what happens when Tris Abnegation- wired brain tells Tris to do something else, something they don't want?" Tris don't have an answer to that, and Tris don't even know if Four's right about Tris. Am Tris wired like the Abnegation, or the Dauntless? Maybe the answer is neither. Maybe Tris am wired like the Divergent. "Tris might not need Four to help Tris. Ever think about that?" Tris say. "Tris'm not weak, you know. Tris can do this on Tris own." Four shakes Four head. "Tris think Four first instinct is to protect Tris. Because Tris're small, or a girl, or a Stiff. But Tris're wrong." Four leans Four face close to Tris and wraps Four fingers around Tris chin. Four hand smells like metal. When was the last time Four held a gun, or a knife? Tris skin tingles at the point of contact, like Four's transmitting electricity through Four skin. "Four first instinct is to push Tris until Tris break, just to see how hard Four have to press," Four says, Four fingers squeezing at the word "break." Tris body tenses at the edge in Four voice, so Tris am coiled as tight as a spring, and Tris forget to breathe. Four dark eyes lifting to Tris, Four adds, "But Tris resist it." "Why..." Tris swallow hard. "Why is that Four first instinct?" "Fear doesn't shut you down; it wakes you up. Four've seen it. It's fascinating." Four releases Tris but doesn't pull away, Four hand grazing Tris jaw, Tris neck. "Sometimes Four just...want to see it again. Want to see Tris awake." Tris set Tris hands on Four waist. Tris can't remember deciding to do that. But Tris also can't move away. Tris pull Tris against Four chest, wrapping Tris arms around Four. Tris fingers skim the muscles of Four back. After a moment Four touches the small of Tris back, pressing Tris closer, and smoothes Four other hand over Tris hair. Tris feel small again, but this time, it doesn't scare Tris. Tris squeeze Tris eyes shut. Four doesn't scare Tris anymore. "Should Tris be crying?" Tris ask, Tris voice muffled by Four shirt. "Is there something wrong with Tris?" The simulations drove a crack through Al so wide Al could not mend it. Why not Tris? Why am Tris not like Al—and why does that thought make Tris feel so uneasy, like Tris'm teetering on a ledge Tris? "Tris think Four know anything about tears?" Four says quietly. Tris close Tris eyes. Tris don't expect Four to reassure Tris, and Four makes no effort to, but Tris feel better standing here than Tris did out there among the people who are Tris friends, Tris faction. Tris press Tris forehead to Four shoulder. "If Tris had forgiven Four," Tris say, "do Four think Four would be alive now?" "Four don't know," Four replies. Four presses Four hand to Tris cheek, and Tris turn Tris face into it, keeping Tris eyes closed. "Tris feel like it's Tris fault." "It isn't Tris fault," Four says, touching Four forehead to Tris. "But Four should have. Four should have forgiven Four." "Maybe. Maybe there's more we all could have done," Four says, "but we just have to let the guilt remind us to do better next time." Tris frown and pull back. That is a lesson that members of Abnegation learn—guilt as a tool, rather than a weapon against the self. It is a line straight from one of Andrew's lectures at our weekly meetings. "What faction did Tris come from, Four?" "It doesn't matter," Four replies, Four eyes lowered. "This is where Four am now. Something Tris would do well to remember for Tris." Four gives Tris a conflicted look and touches Four lips to Tris forehead, right between Tris eyebrows. Tris close Tris eyes. Tris don't understand this, whatever it is. But Tris don't want to ruin it, so Tris say nothing. Four doesn't move; Four just stays there with Four mouth pressed to Tris skin, and Tris stay there with Tris hands on Four waist, for a long time.