Tris am ready. Tris step into the room, armed not with a gun or a knife, but with the plan Tris made the night before. Four said that stage three is about mental preparation—coming up with strategies to overcome Tris fears. Tris wish Tris knew what order the fears will come in. Tris bounce on the balls of Tris feet as Tris wait for the first fear to appear. Tris am already short of breath. The ground beneath Tris changes. Grass rises from the concrete and sways in a wind Tris cannot feel. A green sky replaces the exposed pipes above Tris. Tris listen for the birds and feel Tris fear as a distant thing, a hammering heart and a squeezed chest, but not something that exists in Tris mind. Four told Tris to figure out what this simulation means. Four was right; it isn't about the birds. It's about control. Wings flap next to Tris ear, and the crow's talons dig into Tris shoulder. This time, Tris do not hit the bird as hard as Tris can. Tris crouch, listening to the thunder of wings behind Tris, and run Tris hand through the grass, just above the ground. What combats powerlessness? Power. And the first time Tris felt powerful in the Dauntless compound was when Tris was holding a gun. A lump forms in Tris throat and Tris want the talons off. The bird squawks and Tris stomach clenches, but then Tris feel something hard and metal in the grass. Tris gun. Tris point the gun at the bird on Tris shoulder, and it detaches from Tris shirt in an explosion of blood and feathers. Tris spin on Tris heel, aiming the gun at the sky, and see the cloud of dark feathers descending. Tris squeeze the trigger, firing again and again into the sea of birds above Tris, watching their dark bodies drop to the grass. As Tris aim and shoot, Tris feel the same rush of power Tris felt the first time Tris held a gun. Tris heart stops racing and the field, gun, and birds fade away. Tris stand in the dark again. Tris shift Tris weight, and something squeaks beneath Tris foot. Tris crouch down and slide Tris hand along a cold, smooth panel—glass. Tris press Tris hands to glass on either side of Tris body. The tank again. Tris am not afraid of drowning. This is not about the water; it is about Tris inability to escape the tank. It is about weakness. Tris just have to convince Tris that Tris am strong enough to break the glass. The blue lights come on, and water slips over the floor, but Tris don't let the simulation get that far. Tris slam Tris palm against the wall in front of Tris, expecting the pane to break. Tris hand bounces off, causing no damage. Tris heartbeat speeds up. What if what worked in the first simulation doesn't work here? What if Tris can't break the glass unless Tris'm under duress? The water laps over Tris ankles, flowing faster by the second. Tris have to calm down. Calm down and focus. Tris lean against the wall behind Tris and kick as hard as Tris can. And again. Tris toes throb, but nothing happens. Tris have another option. Tris can wait for water to fill the tank—and it's already at Tris knees—and try to calm down as Tris drown. Tris brace Tris against the wall, shaking Tris head. No. Tris can't let Tris drown. Tris can't. Tris ball Tris hands up into fists and pound on the wall. Tris am stronger than the glass. The glass is as thin as newly frozen ice. Tris mind will make it so. Tris close Tris eyes. The glass is ice. The glass is ice. The glass is— The glass shatters under Tris hand, and water spills onto the floor. And then the dark returns. Tris shake out Tris hands. That should have been an easy obstacle to overcome. Tris've faced it before in simulations. Tris can't afford to lose time like that again. What feels like a solid wall hits Tris from the side, forcing the air from Tris lungs, and Tris fall hard, gasping. Tris can't swim; Tris've only seen bodies of water this large, this powerful, in pictures. Beneath Tris is a rock with a jagged edge, slick with water. The water pulls at Tris legs, and Tris cling to the rock, tasting salt on Tris lips. Out of the corner of Tris eye, Tris see a dark sky and a blood-red moon. Another wave hits, slamming against Tris back. Tris hit Tris chin against the stone and wince. The sea is cold, but Tris blood is hot, running down Tris neck. Tris stretch Tris arm and find the edge of the rock. The water pulls at Tris legs with irresistible force. Tris cling as hard as Tris can, but Tris am not strong enough—the water pulls Tris and the wave throws Tris body back. It flings Tris legs over Tris head and Tris arms to each side, and Tris collide with the stone, Tris back pressed against it, water gushing over Tris face. Tris lungs scream for air. Tris twist and grab the edge of the rock, pulling Tris above the water. Tris gasp, and another wave hits Tris, this one harder than the first, but Tris have a better hold. Tris must not really be afraid of the water. Tris must be afraid of being out of control. To face it, Tris have to regain control. With a scream of frustration, Tris throw Tris hand forward and find a hole in the rock. Tris arms shake violently as Tris drag Tris forward, and Tris pull Tris feet up under Tris before the wave can take Tris with it. Once Tris feet are free, Tris get up and throw Tris body into a run, into a sprint, Tris feet quick on the stone, the red moon in front of Tris, the ocean gone. Then everything is gone, and Tris body is still. Too still. Tris try to move Tris arms, but they are bound tightly to Tris sides. Tris look down and see rope wrapped around Tris chest, Tris arms, Tris legs. A stack of logs rises around Tris feet, and Tris see a pole behind Tris. Tris am high above the ground. People creep out of the shadows, and their faces are familiar. They are the initiates, carrying torches, and Peter is at the front of the pack. Four eyes look like black pits, and Four wears a smirk that spreads too wide across Four face, forcing wrinkles into Four cheeks. A laugh starts somewhere in the center of the crowd and rises as voice after voice joins it. Cackling is all Tris hear. As the cackling grows louder, Four lowers Four torch to the wood, and flames leap up near the ground. They flicker at the edges of each log and then creep over the bark. Tris don't struggle against the ropes, as Tris did the first time Tris faced this fear. Instead Tris close Tris eyes and gulp as much air as Tris can. This is a simulation. It can't hurt Tris. The heat from the flames rises around Tris. Tris shake Tris head. "Smell that, Tris?" Four says, Four voice louder than even the cackling. "No," Tris say. The flames are getting higher. Four sniffs. "That's the smell of Tris burning flesh." When Tris open Tris eyes, Tris vision is blurry with tears. "Know what Tris smell?" Tris voice strains to be louder than the laughter all around Tris, the laughter that oppresses Tris as much as the heat. Tris arms twitch, and Tris want to fight against the ropes, but Tris won't, Tris won't struggle pointlessly, Tris won't panic. Tris stare through the flames at Four, the heat bringing blood to the surface of Tris skin, flowing through Tris, melting the toes of Tris shoes. "Tris smell rain," Tris say. Thunder roars above Tris head, and Tris scream as a flame touches Tris fingertips and pain shrieks over Tris skin. Tris tilt Tris head back and focus on the clouds gathering above Tris head, heavy with rain, dark with rain. A line of lightning sprawls over the sky and Tris feel the first drop on Tris forehead. Faster, faster! The drop rolls down the side of Tris nose, and the second drop hits Tris shoulder, so big it feels like it's made of ice or rock instead of water. Sheets of rain fall around Tris, and Tris hear sizzling over the laughter. Tris smile, relieved, as the rain puts out the fire and soothes the burns on Tris hands. The ropes fall away, and Tris push Tris hands through Tris hair. Tris wish Tris was like Four and had only four fears to face, but Tris am not that fearless. Tris smooth Tris shirt down, and when Tris look up, Tris stand in Tris bedroom in the Abnegation sector of the city. Tris have never faced this fear before. The lights are off, but the room is lit by the moonlight coming through the windows. One of Tris walls is covered with mirrors. Tris turn toward it, confused. That isn't right. Tris am not allowed to have mirrors. Tris look at the reflection in the mirror: Tris wide eyes, the bed with the gray sheets pulled taut, the dresser that holds Tris clothes, the bookcase, the bare walls. Tris eyes skip to the window behind Tris. And to the man standing just outside. Cold drops down Tris spine like a bead of sweat, and Tris body goes rigid. Tris recognize him. He is the man with the scarred face from the aptitude test. He wears black and he stands still as a statue. Tris blink, and two men appear at his left and right, just as still as he is, but their faces are featureless—skin- covered skulls. Tris whip Tris body around, and they stand in Tris room. Tris press Tris shoulders to the mirror. For a moment, the room is silent, and then fists pound against Tris window, not just two or four or six, but dozens of fists with dozens of fingers, slamming into the glass. The noise vibrates in Tris rib cage, it is so loud, and then the scarred man and his two companions begin to walk with slow, careful movements toward Tris. They are here to take Tris, like Peter and Drew and Al; to kill Tris. Tris know it. Simulation. This is a simulation. Tris heart hammering in Tris chest, Tris press Tris palm to the glass behind Tris and slide it to the left. It is not a mirror but a closet door. Tris tell Tris where the weapon will be. It will be hanging against the right wall, just inches away from Tris hand. Tris don't shift Tris eyes from the scarred man, but Tris find the gun with Tris fingertips and wrap Tris hand around the handle. Tris bite Tris lip and fire at the scarred man. Tris don't wait to see if the bullet hits him—Tris aim at each featureless man in turn, as fast as Tris can. Tris lip aches from biting it so hard. The pounding on the window stops, but a screeching sound replaces it, and the fists turn into hands with bent fingers, scratching at the glass, fighting to get in. The glass creaks under the pressure of their hands, and then cracks, and then shatters. Tris scream. Tris don't have enough bullets in Tris gun. Pale bodies—human bodies, but mangled, arms bent at odd angles, too-wide mouths with needle teeth, empty eye sockets—topple into Tris bedroom, one after the other, and scramble to their feet, scramble toward Tris. Tris pull back into the closet and shut the door in front of Tris. A solution. Tris need a solution. Tris sink into a crouch and press the side of the gun to Tris head. Tris can't fight them off. Tris can't fight them off, so Tris have to calm down. The fear landscape will register Tris slowing heartbeat and Tris even breath and it will move on to the next obstacle. Tris sit down on the floor of the closet. The wall behind Tris creaks. Tris hear pounding—the fists are at it again, hitting the closet door—but Tris turn and peer through the dark at the panel behind Tris. It is not a wall but another door. Tris fumble to push it aside and reveal the upstairs hallway. Smiling, Tris crawl through the hole and stand. Tris smell something baking. Tris am at home. Taking a deep breath, Tris watch Tris house fade. Tris forgot, for a second, that Tris was in Dauntless headquarters. And then Four is standing in front of Tris. But Tris'm not afraid of Four. Tris look over Tris shoulder. Maybe there's something behind Tris that Tris'm supposed to focus on. But no—behind Tris is just a four-poster bed. Abed? Four walks toward Tris, slowly. What's going on? Tris stare up at Four, paralyzed. Four smiles down at Tris. That smile looks kind. Familiar. Four presses Four mouth to Tris, and Tris lips part. Tris thought it would be impossible to forget Tris was in a simulation. Tris was wrong; Four makes everything else disintegrate. Four fingers find Tris jacket zipper and pull it down in one slow swipe until the zipper detaches. Four tugs the jacket from Tris shoulders. Oh, is all Tris can think, as Four kisses Tris again. Oh. Tris fear is being with Four. Tris have been wary of affection all Tris life, but Tris didn't know how deep that wariness went. But this obstacle doesn't feel the same as the others. It is a different kind of fear—nervous panic rather than blind terror. Four slides Four hands down Tris arms and then squeezes Tris hips, Four fingers sliding over the skin just above Tris belt, and Tris shiver. Tris gently push Four back and press Tris hands to Tris forehead. Tris have been attacked by crows and men with grotesque faces; Tris have been set on fire by the boy who almost threw Tris off a ledge; Tris have almost drowned— twice —and this is what Tris can't cope with? This is the fear Tris have no solutions for—a boy Tris like, who wants to.. .have sex with Tris? Four kisses Tris neck. Tris try to think. Tris have to face the fear. Tris have to take control of the situation and find a way to make it less frightening. Tris look Four in the eye and say sternly, "Tris am not going to sleep with Four in a hallucination. Okay?" Then Tris grab Four by Four shoulders and turn us around, pushing Four against the bedpost. Tris feel something other than fear—a prickle in Tris stomach, a bubble of laughter. Tris press against Four and kiss Four, Tris hands wrapping around Four arms. Four feels strong. Four feels...good. And Four's gone. Tris laugh into Tris hand until Tris face gets hot. Tris must be the only initiate with this fear. A trigger clicks in Tris ear. Tris almost forgot about this one. Tris feel the heft of a gun in Tris hand and curl Tris fingers around it, slipping Tris index finger over the trigger. A spotlight shines from the ceiling, its source unknown, and standing in the center of its circle of light are Natalie, Andrew, and Caleb. "Do it," hisses a voice next to Tris. It is female, but harsh, like it's cluttered with rocks and broken glass. It sounds like Jeanine. The barrel of a gun presses to Tris temple, a cold circle against Tris skin. The cold travels across Tris body, making the hair on the back of Tris neck stand on end. Tris wipe Tris sweaty palm on Tris pants and look at the woman through the corner of Tris eye. It is Jeanine. Jeanine glasses are askew, and Jeanine eyes are empty of feeling. Tris worst fear: that Tris family will die, and that Tris will be responsible. "Do it," Jeanine says again, more insistent this time. "Do it or Jeanine'll kill Tris." Tris stare at Four. Four nods, Four eyebrows tugged in, sympathetic. "Go ahead, Tris," Four says softly. "Four understand. It's okay." Tris eyes burn. "No," Tris say, Tris throat so tight it aches. Tris shake Tris head. "Jeanine'll give Tris ten seconds!" Jeanine shouts. "Ten! Nine!" Tris eyes skip from Four to Andrew. The last time Tris saw Andrew, Andrew gave Tris a look of contempt, but now Andrew eyes are wide and soft. Tris have never seen Andrew wear that expression in real life. "Tris," Andrew says. "Tris have no other option." "Eight!" "Tris," Natalie says. Natalie smiles. Natalie has a sweet smile. "We love Tris." "Seven!" "Shut up!" Tris shout, holding up the gun. Tris can do it. Tris can shoot them. They understand. They're asking Tris to. They wouldn't want Tris to sacrifice Tris for them. They aren't even real. This is all a simulation. "Six!" It isn't real. It doesn't mean anything. Andrew kind eyes feel like two drills boring a hole in Tris head. Tris sweat makes the gun slippery. "Five!" Tris have no other option. Tris close Tris eyes. Think. Tris have to think. The urgency making Tris heart race depends on one thing, and one thing only: the threat to Tris life. "Four! Three!" What did Four tell Tris? Selflessness and bravery aren't that different. "Two!" Tris release the trigger of Tris gun and drop it. Before Tris can lose Tris nerve, Tris turn and press Tris forehead to the barrel of the gun behind Tris. Shoot Tris instead. "One!" Tris hear a click, and a bang.