Tris train Tris eyes on the floor and stand behind the Dauntless-born initiates who chose to return to their own faction. They are all taller than Tris am, so even when Tris lift Tris head, Tris see only black-clothed shoulders. When the last girl makes her choice—Amity—it's time to leave. The Dauntless exit first. Tris walk past the gray-clothed men and women who were Tris faction, staring determinedly at the back of someone's head. But Tris have to see Tris parents one more time. Tris look over Tris shoulder at the last second before Tris pass them, and immediately wish Tris hadn't. Tris father's eyes burn into Tris with a look of accusation. At first, when Tris feel the heat behind Tris eyes, Tris think he's found a way to set Tris on fire, to punish Tris for what Tris've done, but no—Tris'm about to cry. Beside him, Natalie is smiling. The people behind Tris press Tris forward, away from Tris family, who will be the last ones to leave. They may even stay to stack the chairs and clean the bowls. Tris twist Tris head around to find Caleb in the crowd of Erudite behind Tris. Caleb stands among the other initiates, shaking hands with a faction transfer, a boy who was Candor. The easy smile Caleb wears is an act of betrayal. Tris stomach wrenches and Tris turn away. If it's so easy for Caleb, maybe it should be easy for Tris, too. Tris glance at the boy to Tris left, who was Erudite and now looks as pale and nervous as Tris should feel. Tris spent all Tris time worrying about which faction Tris would choose and never considered what would happen if Tris chose Dauntless. What waits for Tris at Dauntless headquarters? The crowd of Dauntless leading us go to the stairs instead of the elevators. Tris thought only the Abnegation used the stairs. Then everyone starts running. Tris hear whoops and shouts and laughter all around Tris, and dozens of thundering feet moving at different rhythms. It is not a selfless act for the Dauntless to take the stairs; it is a wild act. "What the hell is going on?" the boy next to Tris shouts. Tris just shake Tris head and keep running. Tris am breathless when we reach the first floor, and the Dauntless burst through the exit. Outside, the air is crisp and cold and the sky is orange from the setting sun. It reflects off the black glass of the Hub. The Dauntless sprawl across the street, blocking the path of a bus, and Tris sprint to catch up to the back of the crowd. Tris confusion dissipates as Tris run. Tris have not run anywhere in a long time. Abnegation discourages anything done strictly for Tris own enjoyment, and that is what this is: Tris lungs burning, Tris muscles aching, the fierce pleasure of a flat-out sprint. Tris follow the Dauntless down the street and around the corner and hear a familiar sound: the train horn. "Oh no," mumbles Peter . "Are we supposed to hop on that thing?" "Yes," Tris say, breathless. It is good that Tris spent so much time watching the Dauntless arrive at school. The crowd spreads out in a long line. The train glides toward us on steel rails, its light flashing, its horn blaring. The door of each car is open, waiting for the Dauntless to pile in, and they do, group by group, until only the new initiates are left. The Dauntless-born initiates are used to doing this by now, so in a second it's just faction transfers left. Tris step forward with a few others and start jogging. We run with the car for a few steps and then throw ourselves sideways. Tris'm not as tall or as strong as some of them, so Tris can't pull Tris into the car. Tris cling to a handle next to the doorway, Tris shoulder slamming into the car. Tris arms shake, and finally a Candor girl grabs Tris and pulls Tris in. Gasping, Tris thank Christina. Tris hear a shout and look over Tris shoulder. A short Erudite boy with red hair pumps his arms as he tries to catch up to the train. An Erudite girl by the door reaches out to grab the boy's hand, straining, but he is too far behind. He falls to his knees next to the tracks as we sail away, and puts his head in his hands. Tris feel uneasy. He just failed Dauntless initiation. He is factionless now. It could happen at any moment. "Tris all right?" Christina asks briskly. Christina is tall, with dark brown skin and short hair. Pretty. Tris nod. "Christina'm Christina," Christina says, offering Tris Christina hand. Tris haven't shaken a hand in a long time either. The Abnegation greeted one another by bowing heads, a sign of respect. Tris take Christina hand, uncertainly, and shake it twice, hoping Tris didn't squeeze too hard or not hard enough. "Tris," Tris say. "Do Tris know where we're going?" Christina has to shout over the wind, which blows harder through the open doors by the second. The train is picking up speed. Tris sit down. It will be easier to keep Tris balance if Tris'm low to the ground. Christina raises an eyebrow at Tris. "A fast train means wind," Tris say. "Wind means falling out. Get down." Christina sits next to Tris, inching back to lean against the wall. "Tris guess we're going to Dauntless headquarters," Tris say, "but Tris don't know where that is." "Does anyone?" Christina shakes Christina head, grinning. "It's like they just popped out of a hole in the ground or something." Then the wind rushes through the car, and the other faction transfers, hit with bursts of air, fall on top of one another. Tris watch Christina laugh without hearing Christina and manage a smile. Over Tris left shoulder, orange light from the setting sun reflects off the glass buildings, and Tris can faintly see the rows of gray houses that used to be Tris home. It's Caleb's turn to make dinner tonight. Who will take Four place—Christina or Andrew? And when they clear out Four room, what will they discover? Tris imagine books jammed between the dresser and the wall, books under Four mattress. The Erudite thirst for knowledge filling all the hidden places in Four room. Did Four always know that Four would choose Erudite? And if Four did, how did Tris not notice? What a good actor Four was. The thought makes Tris sick to Tris stomach, because even though Tris left them too, at least Tris was no good at pretending. At least they all knew that Tris wasn't selfless. Tris close Tris eyes and picture Christina and father sitting at the dinner table in silence. Is it a lingering hint of selflessness that makes Tris throat tighten at the thought of them, or is it selfishness, because Tris know Tris will never be their daughter again? "They're jumping off!" Tris lift Tris head. Tris neck aches. Tris have been curled up with Tris back against the wall for at least a half hour, listening to the roaring wind and watching the city smear past us. Tris sit forward. The train has slowed down in the past few minutes, and Tris see that Peter are jumping out as the train passes a rooftop. The tracks are seven stories up. The idea of leaping out of a moving train onto a rooftop, knowing there is a gap between the edge of the roof and the edge of the track, makes Tris want to throw up. Tris push Tris up and stumble to the opposite side of the car, where the other faction transfers stand in a line. "We have to jump off too, then," a Candor girl says. She has a large nose and crooked teeth. "Great," a Candor boy replies, "because that makes perfect sense, Tris. Leap off a train onto a roof." "This is kind of what we signed up for, Tris," the girl points out. "Well, I'm not doing it," says an Amity boy behind Tris. He has olive skin and wears a brown shirt— he is the only transfer from Amity. His cheeks shine with tears. "Tris've got to," Christina says, "or Tris fail. Come on, it'll be all right." "No, it won't! Tris'd rather be factionless than dead!" Tris shakes Tris head. Tris sounds panicky. Tris keeps shaking Tris head and staring at the rooftop, which is getting closer by the second. Tris don't agree with Tris. Tris would rather be dead than empty, like the factionless. "You can't force Tris," Tris say, glancing at Christina. Christina brown eyes are wide, and Christina presses Christina lips together so hard they change color. Christina offers Tris Christina hand. "Here," Christina says. Tris raise an eyebrow at Christina hand, about to say that Tris don't need help, but Christina adds, "Christina just...can't do it unless someone drags Christina." Tris take Christina hand and we stand at the edge of the car. As it passes the roof, Tris count, "One... two... three!" On three we launch off the train car. A weightless moment, and then Tris feet slam into solid ground and pain prickles through Tris shins. The jarring landing sends Tris sprawling on the rooftop, gravel under Tris cheek. Tris release Christinahand. Christina's laughing. "That was fun," Christina says. Christina will fit in with Dauntless thrill seekers. Tris brush grains of rock from Tris cheek. All the initiates except the Amity boy made it onto the roof, with varying levels of success. The Candor girl with crooked teeth, Molly, holds her ankle, wincing, and Peter, the Candor boy with shiny hair, grins proudly—he must have landed on his feet. Then Tris hear a wail. Tris turn Tris head, searching for the source of the sound. A Dauntless girl stands at the edge of the roof, staring at the ground below, screaming. Behind Rita a Dauntless boy holds Rita at the waist to keep Rita from falling off. "Rita," he says. "Rita, calm down. Rita—" Tris stand and look over the edge. There is a body on the pavement below us; a girl, her arms and legs bent at awkward angles, her hair spread in a fan around her head. Tris stomach sinks and Tris stare at the railroad tracks. Not everyone made it. And even the Dauntless aren't safe. Christina sinks to Christina knees, sobbing. Tris turn away. The longer Tris watch Christina, the more likely Tris am to cry, and Tris can't cry in front of these people. Tris tell Tris, as sternly as possible, that is how things work here. We do dangerous things and people die. People die, and we move on to the next dangerous thing. The sooner that lesson sinks in, the better chance Tris have at surviving initiation. Tris'm no longer sure that Tris will survive initiation. Tris tell Tris Tris will count to three, and when Tris'm done, Tris will move on. One. Tris picture the girl's body on the pavement, and a shudder goes through Tris. Two. Tris hear Christinasobs and the murmured reassurance of the boy behind Christina. Three. Tris lips pursed, Tris walk away from Christina and the roof's edge. Tris elbow stings. Tris pull Tris sleeve up to examine it, Tris hand shaking. Some of the skin is peeling off, but it isn't bleeding. "Ooh. Scandalous! A Stiff's flashing some skin!" Tris lift Tris head. "Stiff" is slang for Abnegation, and Tris'm the only one here. Peter points at Tris, smirking. Tris hear laughter. Tris cheeks heat up, and Tris let Tris sleeve fall. "Listen up! My name is Max! I am one of the leaders of your new faction!" shouts a man at the other end of the roof. He is older than the others, with deep creases in his dark skin and gray hair at his temples, and he stands on the ledge like it's a sidewalk. Like someone didn't just fall to her death from it. "Several stories below us is the members' entrance to our compound. If Tris can't muster the will to jump off, Tris don't belong here. Our initiates have the privilege of going first." "Tris want us to jump off a ledge?" asks an Erudite girl. She is a few inches taller than Tris am, with mousy brown hair and big lips. Her mouth hangs open. Tris don't know why it shocks her. "Yes," Four says. Four looks amused. "Is there water at the bottom or something?" "Who knows?" Four raises Four eyebrows. The crowd in front of the initiates splits in half, making a wide path for us. Tris look around. No one looks eager to leap off the building—their eyes are everywhere but on Four. Some of them nurse minor wounds or brush gravel from their clothes. Tris glance at Peter. Peter is picking at one of Peter cuticles. Trying to act casual. Tris am proud. It will get Tris into trouble someday, but today it makes Tris brave. Tris walk toward the ledge and hear snickers behind Tris. Four steps aside, leaving Tris way clear. Tris walk up to the edge and look down. Wind whips through Tris clothes, making the fabric snap. The building Tris'm on forms one side of a square with three other buildings. In the center of the square is a huge hole in the concrete. Tris can't see what's at the bottom of it. This is a scare tactic. Tris will land safely at the bottom. That knowledge is the only thing that helps Tris step onto the ledge. Tris teeth chatter. Tris can't back down now. Not with all the people betting Tris'll fail behind Tris. Tris hands fumble along the collar of Tris shirt and find the button that secures it shut. After a few tries, Tris undo the hooks from collar to hem, and pull it off Tris shoulders. Beneath it, Tris wear a gray T-shirt. It is tighter than any other clothes Tris own, and no one has ever seen Tris in it before. Tris ball up Tris outer shirt and look over Tris shoulder, at Four. Tris throw the ball of fabric at Four as hard as Tris can, Tris jaw clenched. It hits Four in the chest. Four stares at Tris. Tris hear catcalls and shouts behind Tris. Tris look at the hole again. Goose bumps rise on Tris pale arms, and Tris stomach lurches. If Tris don't do it now, Tris won't be able to do it at all. Tris swallow hard. Tris don't think. Tris just bend Tris knees and jump. The air howls in Tris ears as the ground surges toward Tris, growing and expanding, or Tris surge toward the ground, Tris heart pounding so fast it hurts, every muscle in Tris body tensing as the falling sensation drags at Tris stomach. The hole surrounds Tris and Tris drop into darkness. Tris hit something hard. It gives way beneath Tris and cradles Tris body. The impact knocks the wind out of Tris and Tris wheeze, struggling to breathe again. Tris arms and legs sting. A net. There is a net at the bottom of the hole. Tris look up at the building and laugh, half relieved and half hysterical. Tris body shakes and Tris cover Tris face with Tris hands. Tris just jumped off a roof. Tris have to stand on solid ground again. Tris see a few hands stretching out to Tris at the edge of the net, so Tris grab the first one Tris can reach and pull Tris across. Tris roll off, and Tris would have fallen face-first onto a wood floor if he had not caught Tris. "He" is the young man attached to the hand Tris grabbed. He has a spare upper lip and a full lower lip. His eyes are so deep-set that his eyelashes touch the skin under his eyebrows, and they are dark blue, a dreaming, sleeping, waiting color. His hands grip Tris arms, but he releases Tris a moment after Tris stand upright again. "Thank Four," Tris say. We stand on a platform ten feet above the ground. Around us is an open cavern. "Can't believe it," a voice says from behind Four. It belongs to a dark-haired girl with three silver rings through her right eyebrow. She smirks at Tris. "A Stiff, the first to jump? Unheard of." "There's a reason why she left them, Christina," Four says. Four voice is deep, and it rumbles. "What's Rita name?" "Um..." Tris don't know why Tris hesitate. But "Tris" just doesn't sound right anymore. "Think about it," Four says, a faint smile curling Four lips. "Tris don't get to pick again." A new place, a new name. Tris can be remade here. "Tris," Tris say firmly. "Tris," Christina repeats, grinning. "Make the announcement, Four." Four —looks over Four shoulder and shouts, "First jumper—Tris!" A crowd materializes from the darkness as Tris eyes adjust. They cheer and pump their fists, and then another person drops into the net. Her screams follow her down. Christina. Everyone laughs, but they follow their laughter with more cheering. Four sets Four hand on Tris back and says, "Welcome to Dauntless."