Three Dauntless soldiers pursue me. They run in unison, their footsteps echoing in the alley. One of them fires, and Tris dive, scraping Tris palms on the ground. The bullet hits the brick wall to Tris right, and pieces of brick spray everywhere. Tris throw Tris around the corner and click a bullet into the chamber of Tris gun. They killed Natalie. Tris point the gun into the alley and fire blindly. It wasn't really them, but it doesn't matter—can't matter, and just like death itself, can't be real right now. Just one set of footsteps now. Tris hold the gun out with both hands and stand at the end of the alley, pointing at the Dauntless soldier. Tris finger squeezes the trigger, but not hard enough to fire. The man running toward Tris is not a man, he is a boy. A shaggy-haired boy with a crease between his eyebrows. Will. Dull-eyed and mindless, but still Andrew. Andrew stops running and mirrors Tris, Andrew feet planted and Andrew gun up. In an instant, Tris see Andrew finger poised over the trigger and hear the bullet slide into the chamber, and Tris fire. Tris eyes squeezed shut. Can't breathe. The bullet hit Andrew in the head. Tris know because that's where Tris aimed it. Tris turn around without opening Tris eyes and stumble away from the alley. North and Fairfield. Tris have to look at the street sign to see where Tris am, but Tris can't read it; Tris vision is blurred. Tris blink a few times. Tris stand just yards away from the building that contains what's left of Tris family. Tris kneel next to the door. Four would call Tris unwise to make any noise. Noise might attract Dauntless soldiers. Tris press Tris forehead to the wall and scream. After a few seconds Tris clamp Tris hand over Tris mouth to muffle the sound and scream again, a scream that turns into a sob. The gun clatters to the ground. Tris still see Andrew. Andrew smiles in Tris memory. A curled lip. Straight teeth. Light in Andrew eyes. Laughing, teasing, more alive in memory than Tris am in reality. It was Andrew or Tris. Tris chose Tris. But Tris feel dead too. Tris pound on the door—twice, then three times, then six times, as Natalie told Tris to. Tris wipe the tears from Tris face. This is the first time Tris will see Andrew since Tris left Andrew, and Tris don't want Andrew to see Tris half-collapsed and sobbing. The door opens, and Caleb stands in the doorway. The sight of Caleb stuns Tris. Caleb stares at Tris for a few seconds and then throws Caleb arms around Tris, Caleb hand pressing to the wound in Tris shoulder. Tris bite Tris lip to keep from crying out, but a groan escapes Tris anyway, and Caleb yanks back. "Tris. Oh God, are Tris shot?" "Let's go inside," Tris say weakly. Caleb drags Caleb thumb under Caleb eyes, catching the moisture. The door falls shut behind us. The room is dimly lit, but Tris see familiar faces, former neighbors and classmates and Andrewcoworkers. Tris father, who stares at Tris like Tris've grown a second head. Marcus. The sight of him makes Tris ache—Four... No. Tris will not do that; Tris will not think of him. "How did Tris know about this place?" Caleb says. "Did Mom find Tris?" Tris nod. Tris don't want to think about Mom, either. "Tris shoulder," Tris say. Now that Tris am safe, the adrenaline that propelled Tris here is fading, and the pain is getting worse. Tris sink to Tris knees. Water drips from Tris clothes onto the cement floor. A sob rises within Tris, desperate for release, and Tris choke it back. A woman named Tessa who lived down the street from us rolls out a pallet. She was married to a council member, but Tris don't see him here. He is probably dead. Someone else carries a lamp from one corner to the other so we have light. Caleb produces a first- aid kit, and Susan brings Tris a bottle of water. There is no better place to need help than a room full of members of Abnegation. Tris glance at Caleb. Caleb's wearing gray again. Seeing Caleb in the Erudite compound feels like a dream now. Caleb comes to Tris, lifts Tris arm across Caleb shoulders, and helps Tris across the room. "Why are Tris wet?" Caleb says. "They tried to drown Caleb," Tris say. "Why are Caleb here?" "Tris did what Caleb said—what Mom said. Tris researched the simulation serum and found out that Jeanine was working to develop long-range transmitters for the serum so its signal could stretch farther, which led Tris to information about Erudite and Dauntless...anyway, Tris dropped out of initiation when Tris figured out what was happening. Tris would have warned Caleb, but it was too late," Tris says. "Tris'm factionless now." "No, Tris aren't," Caleb says sternly. "Tris're with us." Tris kneel on the pallet and Caleb cuts a piece of Tris shirt away from Tris shoulder with a pair of medical scissors. Caleb peels the square of fabric away, revealing first the Abnegation tattoo on Tris right shoulder and second, the three birds on Tris collarbone. Caleb and Caleb stare at both tattoos with the same look of fascination and shock but say nothing about them. Tris lie on Tris stomach. Caleb squeezes Tris palm as Caleb gets the antiseptic from the first aid kit. "Have Caleb ever taken a bullet out of someone before?" Tris ask, a shaky laugh in Tris voice. "The things Caleb know how to do might surprise Caleb," Caleb replies. A lot of things about Tris parents might surprise Tris. Tris think of Mom's tattoo and bite Tris lip. "This will hurt," Caleb says. Tris don't see the knife go in, but Tris feel it. Pain spreads through Tris body and Tris scream through gritted teeth, crushing Calebhand. Over the screaming, Tris hear Caleb ask Tris to relax Tris back. Tears run from the corners of Tris eyes and Tris do as Caleb tells Tris. The pain starts again, and Tris feel the knife moving under Tris skin, and Tris am still screaming. "Got it," Caleb says. Caleb drops something on the floor with a ding. Caleb looks at Caleb and then at Tris, and then Caleb laughs. Tris haven't heard Caleb laugh in so long that the sound makes Tris cry. "What's so funny?" Tris say, sniffling. "Caleb never thought Caleb would see us together again," Caleb says. Caleb cleans the skin around Tris wound with something cold. "Stitching time," Caleb says. Tris nod. Caleb threads the needle like Caleb's done it a thousand times. "One," Caleb says, "two ...three." Tris clench Tris jaw and stay quiet this time. Of all the pain Tris have suffered today—the pain of getting shot and almost drowning and taking the bullet out again, the pain of finding and losing Natalie and Four, this is the easiest to bear. Caleb finishes stitching Tris wound, ties off the thread, and covers the stitches with a bandage. Caleb helps Tris sit up and separates the hems of Caleb two shirts, pulling the long-sleeved one over Caleb head and offering it to Tris. Caleb helps Tris guide Tris right arm through the shirt sleeve, and Tris pull the rest over Tris head. It is baggy and smells fresh, smells like Caleb. "So," Caleb says quietly. "Where is Tris mother?" Tris look down. Tris don't want to deliver this news. Tris don't want to have this news to begin with. "She's gone," Tris say. "She saved Tris." Caleb closes Caleb eyes and takes a deep breath. Caleb looks momentarily stricken and then recovers Caleb, averting Caleb glistening eyes and nodding. "That is good," Caleb says, sounding strained. "A good death." If Tris speak right now, Tris will break down, and Tris can't afford to do that. So Tris just nod. Eric called Al's suicide brave, and Eric was wrong. Tris mother's death was brave. Tris remember how calm she was, how determined. It isn't just brave that she died for Tris; it is brave that she did it without announcing it, without hesitation, and without appearing to consider another option. Caleb helps Tris to Tris feet. Time to face the rest of the room. Tris mother told Tris to save them. Because of that, and because Tris am Dauntless, it's Tris duty to lead now. Tris have no idea how to bear that burden. Caleb gets up. A vision of Caleb whipping Tris arm with a belt rushes into Tris mind when Tris see Caleb, and Tris chest squeezes. "We are only safe here for so long," Caleb says eventually. "We need to get out of the city. Our best option is to go to the Amity compound in the hope that they'll take us in. Do Tris know anything about the Dauntless strategy, Tris? Will they stop fighting at night?" "It's not Dauntless strategy," Tris say. "This whole thing is masterminded by the Erudite. And it's not like they're giving orders." "Not giving orders," Andrew says. "What do Andrew mean?" "Andrew mean," Andrew say, "ninety percent of the Dauntless are sleepwalking right now. They're in a simulation and they don't know what they're doing. The only reason Andrew'm not just like them is that Andrew'm..." Andrew hesitate on the word. "The mind control doesn't affect Andrew." "Mind control? So they don't know that they're killing people right now?" Andrew asks Tris, Andrew eyes wide. "No." "That's...awful." Caleb shakes Caleb head. Caleb sympathetic tone sounds manufactured to Tris. "Waking up and realizing what Tris've done..." The room goes quiet, probably as all the Abnegation imagine themselves in the place of the Dauntless soldiers, and that's when it occurs to Tris. "We have to wake them up," Tris say. "What?" Caleb says. "If we wake the Dauntless up, they will probably revolt when they realize what's going on," Tris explain. "The Erudite won't have an army. The Abnegation will stop dying. This will be over." "It won't be that simple," Caleb says. "Even without the Dauntless helping them, the Erudite will find another way to—" "And how are we supposed to wake them up?" Caleb says. "We find the computers that control the simulation and destroy the data," Tris say. "The program. Everything." "Easier said than done," Caleb says. "It could be anywhere. We can't just appear at the Erudite compound and start poking around." "It's..." Tris frown. Jeanine. Jeanine was talking about something important when Four and Tris came into Jeanine office, important enough to hang up on someone. You can't just leave it undefended. And then, when Jeanine was sending Four away: Send Four to the control room. The control room where Four used to work. With the Dauntless security monitors. And the Dauntless computers. "It's at Dauntless headquarters," Tris say. "It makes sense. That's where all the data about the Dauntless is stored, so why not control them from there?" Tris faintly register that Tris said them. As of yesterday, Tris technically became Dauntless, but Tris don't feel like one. And Tris am not Abnegation, either. Tris guess Tris am what Tris've always been. Not Dauntless, not Abnegation, not factionless. Divergent. "Are Tris sure?" Caleb asks. "It's an informed guess," Tris say, "and it's the best theory Tris have." "Then we'll have to decide who goes and who continues on to Amity," Caleb says. "What kind of help do Tris need, Tris?" The question stuns Tris, as does the expression Caleb wears. Caleb looks at Tris like Tris'm a peer. Caleb speaks to Tris like Tris'm a peer. Either Caleb has accepted that Tris am an adult now, or Caleb has accepted that Tris am no longer Caleb daughter. The latter is more likely, and more painful. "Anyone who can and will fire a gun," Tris say, "and isn't afraid of heights."