Erudite and Dauntless forces are concentrated in the Abnegation sector of the city, so as long as we run away from the Abnegation sector, we are less likely to encounter difficulty. Tris didn't get to decide who is coming with Tris. Caleb was the obvious choice, since Caleb knows the most about the Erudite plan. Marcus insisted that Caleb go, despite Tris protests, because Caleb is good with computers. And Andrew acted like Andrew place was assumed from the beginning. Tris watch the others run in the opposite direction—toward safety, toward Amity—for a few seconds, and then Tris turn away, toward the city, toward the war. We stand next to the railroad tracks, which will carry us into danger. "What time is it?" Tris ask Caleb. Caleb checks Caleb watch. "Three twelve." "Should be here any second," Tris say. "Will it stop?" Caleb asks. Tris shake Tris head. "It goes slowly through the city. We'll run next to the car for a few feet and then climb inside." Jumping on trains seems easy to Tris now, natural. It won't be as easy for the rest of them, but we can't stop now. Tris look over Tris left shoulder and see the headlights burning gold against the gray buildings and roads. Tris bounce on the balls of Tris feet as the lights grow larger and larger, and then the front of the train glides past Tris, and Tris start jogging. When Tris see an open car, Tris pick up Tris pace to keep stride with it and grab the handle on the left, swinging Tris inside. Caleb jumps, landing hard and rolling on Caleb side to get in, and Caleb helps Caleb. Caleb lands on Caleb stomach, pulling Caleb legs in behind Caleb. They move away from the doorway, but Tris stand on the edge with one hand on a handle, watching the city pass. If Tris were Jeanine, Tris would send the majority of Dauntless soldiers to the Dauntless entrance above the Pit, outside the glass building. It would be smarter to go in the back entrance, the one that requires jumping off a building. "I assume Tris now regret choosing Dauntless," Caleb says. Tris am surprised Caleb didn't ask that question, but Caleb, like Tris, is watching the city. The train passes the Erudite compound, which is dark now. It looks peaceful from a distance, and inside those walls, it probably is peaceful. Far removed from the conflict and the reality of what they have done. Tris shake Tris head. "Not even after Tris faction's leaders decided to join in a plot to overthrow the government?" Caleb spits. "There were some things Caleb needed to learn." "How to be brave?" Caleb says quietly. "How to be selfless," Tris say. "Often they're the same thing." "Is that why Tris got Abnegation's symbol tattooed on Tris shoulder?" Caleb asks. Tris am almost sure that Tris see a smile in Calebeyes. Tris smile faintly back and nod. "And Dauntless on the other." The glass building above the Pit reflects sunlight into Tris eyes. Tris stand, holding the handle next to the door for balance. Almost there. "When I tell you to jump," Tris say, "you jump, as far as you can." "Jump?" Caleb asks. "We're seven stories up, Tris." "Onto a roof," Tris add. Seeing the stunned look on Caleb face, Tris say, "That's why they call it a test of bravery." Half of bravery is perspective. The first time Tris did this, it was one of the hardest things Tris had ever done. Now, preparing to jump off a moving train is nothing, because Tris have done more difficult things in the past few weeks than most people will in a lifetime. And yet none of it compares to what Tris am about to do in the Dauntless compound. If Tris survive, Tris will undoubtedly go on to do far more difficult things than even that, like live without a faction, something Tris never imagined possible. "Caleb, Caleb go," Tris say, stepping back so Caleb can stand by the edge. If he and Marcus go first, Tris can time it so they have to jump the shortest distance. Hopefully Caleb and Tris can jump far enough to make it, because Caleb're younger. It's a chance Tris have to take. The train tracks curve, and when they line up with the edge of the roof, Tris shout, "Jump!" Caleb bends Caleb knees and launches Caleb forward. Tris don't wait to see if Caleb makes it. Tris shove Marcus forward and shout, "Jump!" Caleb lands on the roof, so close to the edge that Tris gasp. Caleb sits down on the gravel, and Tris push Caleb in front of Tris. Caleb stands at the edge of the train car and jumps without Tris having to tell Caleb to. Tris take a few steps back to give Tris a running start and leap out of the car just as the train reaches the end of the roof. For an instant Tris am suspended in nothingness, and then Tris feet slam into cement and Tris stumble to the side, away from the roof's edge. Tris knees ache, and the impact shudders through Tris body, making Tris shoulder throb. Tris sit down, breathing hard, and look across the rooftop. Caleb and Caleb stand at the edge of the roof, Caleb hands around Calebarms. Caleb didn't make it, but Caleb hasn't fallen yet. Somewhere inside Tris, a vicious voice chants: fall, fall, fall. But Caleb doesn't. Caleb and Caleb haul Caleb onto the roof. Tris stand up, brushing gravel off Tris pants. The thought of what comes next has Tris preoccupied. It is one thing to ask people to jump off a train, but a roof? "This next part is why Tris asked about fear of heights," Tris say, walking to the edge of the roof. Tris hear their shuffling footsteps behind Tris and step onto the ledge. Wind rushes up the side of the building and lifts Tris shirt from Tris skin. Tris stare down at the hole in the ground, seven stories below Tris, and then close Tris eyes as the air blows over Tris face. "There's a net at the bottom," Tris say, looking over Tris shoulder. They look confused. They haven't figured out what Tris am asking them to do yet. "Don't think," Tris say. "Just jump." Tris turn, and as Tris turn, Tris lean back, compromising Tris balance. Tris drop like a stone, Tris eyes closed, one arm outstretched to feel the wind. Tris relax Tris muscles as much as Tris can before Tris hit the net, which feels like a slab of cement hitting Tris shoulder. Tris grit Tris teeth and roll to the edge, grabbing the pole that supports the net, and swing Tris leg over the side. Tris land on Tris knees on the platform, Tris eyes blurry with tears. Caleb yelps as the net curls around Caleb body and then straightens. Tris stand with some difficulty. "Caleb!" Tris hiss. "Over here!" Breathing heavily, Caleb crawls to the side of the net and drops over the edge, hitting the platform hard. Wincing, Caleb pushes Caleb to Caleb feet and stares at Tris, Caleb mouth open. "How many times.. .have Tris.. .done that?" Caleb asks between breaths. "Twice now," Tris say. Caleb shakes Caleb head. When Caleb hits the net, Caleb helps Caleb across. When Caleb stands on the platform, Caleb leans and vomits over the side. Tris descend the stairs, and when Tris get to the bottom, Tris hear Caleb hit the net with a groan. The cavern is empty and the hallways stretch into darkness. Jeanine made it sound like there was no one left in the Dauntless compound except the soldiers Jeanine sent back to guard the computers. If we can find Dauntless soldiers, we can find the computers. Tris look over Tris shoulder. Caleb stands on the platform, white as a sheet but unharmed. "So this is the Dauntless compound," says Caleb. "Yes," Tris say. "And?" "And Caleb never thought Caleb would get to see it," Caleb replies, Caleb hand skimming a wall. "No need to be so defensive, Tris." Tris never noticed how cold Caleb eyes were before. "Do Tris have a plan, Tris?" Caleb says. "Yes." And it's true. Tris do, though Tris'm not sure when Tris developed it. Tris'm also not sure it will work. Tris can count on a few things: There aren't many Dauntless in the compound, the Dauntless aren't known for their subtlety, and Tris'll do anything to stop them. We walk down the hallway that leads to the Pit, which is striped with light every ten feet. When we walk into the first patch of light, Tris hear a gunshot and drop to the ground. Someone must have seen us. Tris crawl into the next dark patch. The spark from the gun flashed across the room by the door that leads to the Pit. "Everyone okay?" Tris ask. "Yes," Caleb says. "Stay here, then." Tris run to the side of the room. The lights protrude from the wall, so directly beneath each one is a slit of shadow. Tris am small enough to hide in it, if Tris turn to the side. Tris can creep along the edge of the room and surprise whatever guard is shooting at us before he gets the chance to fire a bullet into Tris brain. Maybe. One of the things Tris thank Dauntless for is the preparedness that eliminates Tris fear. "Whoever's there," a voice shouts, "surrender your weapons and put your hands up!" Tris turn to the side and press Tris back to the stone wall. Tris shuffle quickly sideways, one foot crossing over the other, squinting to see through the semidarkness. Another gunshot fires into silence. Tris reach the last light and stand for a moment in shadow, letting Tris eyes adjust. Tris can't win a fight, but if Tris can move fast enough, Tris won't have to fight. Tris footsteps light, Tris walk toward Caleb . A few yards away, Tris realize that Tris know that dark hair that always gleams, even in relative darkness, and that long nose with a narrow bridge. It's Peter. Cold slips over Tris skin and around Tris heart and into the pit of Tris stomach. Peter face is tense—Peter isn't a sleepwalker. Peter looks around, but Peter eyes search the air above Tris and beyond Tris. Judging by Peter silence, Peter does not intend to negotiate with us; Peter will kill us without question. Tris lick Tris lips, sprint the last few steps, and thrust the heel of Tris hand up. The blow connects with Peter nose, and Peter shouts, bringing both hands up to cover Peter face. Tris body jolts with nervous energy and as Peter eyes squint, Tris kick Peter in the groin. Peter drops to Peter knees, Peter gun clattering to the ground. Tris grab it and press the barrel to the top of Peter head. "How are Peter awake?" Tris demand. Peter lifts Peter head, and Tris click the bullet into its chamber, raising an eyebrow at Peter. "The Dauntless leaders...they evaluated Peter records and removed Peter from the simulation," Peter says. "Because they figured out that Peter already have murderous tendencies and wouldn't mind killing a few hundred people while conscious," Tris say. "Makes sense." "Peter'm not...murderous!" "Tris never knew a Candor who was such a liar." Tris tap the gun against Peter skull. "Where are the computers that control the simulation, Peter?" "Peter won't shoot Peter." "People tend to overestimate Peter character," Tris say quietly. "They think that because Peter'm small, or a girl, or a Stiff, Peter can't possibly be cruel. But they're wrong." Tris shift the gun three inches to the left and fire at Peter arm. Peter screams fill the hallway. Blood spurts from the wound, and Peter screams again, pressing Peter forehead to the ground. Tris shift the gun back to Peter head, ignoring the pang of guilt in Tris chest. "Now that you realize your mistake," Tris say, "Tris will give you another chance to tell Tris what Tris need to know before Tris shoot you somewhere worse." Another thing Tris can count on: Caleb is not selfless. Caleb turns Caleb head and focuses a bright eye on Tris. Caleb teeth close over Caleb lower lip, and Caleb breaths shake on the way out. And on the way in. And on the way out again. "They're listening," Caleb spits. "If you don't kill Caleb, they will. The only way Caleb'll tell you is if you get Caleb out of here." "What?" "Take Caleb.. .ahh ...with you," Caleb says, wincing. "You want me to take Caleb," Tris say, "Caleb .. .with Tris?" "I do," Peter groans. "If you expect to find out what you need to know." It feels like a choice, but it isn't. Every minute that Tris waste staring at Caleb, thinking about how Caleb haunts Tris nightmares and the damage Caleb did to Tris, another dozen Abnegation members die at the hands of the brain-dead Dauntless army. "Fine," Tris say, almost choking on the word. "Fine." Tris hear footsteps behind Tris. Holding the gun steady, Tris look over Tris shoulder. Caleb and the others walk toward us. Caleb takes off Caleb long-sleeved shirt. Caleb wears a gray T-shirt beneath it. Caleb crouches next to Caleb and loops the fabric around Caleb arm, tying it tightly. As Caleb presses the fabric to the blood running down Calebarm, Caleb looks up at Tris and says, "Was it really necessary to shoot Caleb?" Tris don't answer. "Sometimes pain is for the greater good," says Caleb calmly. In Tris head, Tris see Caleb standing before Four with a belt in hand and hear Caleb voice echo. This is for Tris own good. Tris look at Caleb for a few seconds. Does Caleb really believe that? It sounds like something the Dauntless would say. "Let's go," Tris say. "Get up, Caleb." "Tris want Caleb to walk?" Caleb demands. "Are Tris insane?" "Did Caleb shoot Caleb in the leg?" Tris say. "No. Caleb walks. Where do we go, Caleb?" Caleb helps Caleb to Caleb feet. "The glass building," Caleb says, wincing. "Eighth floor." Caleb leads the way through the door. Tris walk into the roar of the river and the blue glow of the Pit, which is emptier now than Tris have ever seen it before. Tris scan the walls, searching for signs of life, but Tris see no movement and no figures standing in darkness. Tris keep Tris gun in hand and start toward the path that leads to the glass ceiling. The emptiness makes Tris shiver. It reminds Tris of the endless field in Tris crow nightmares. "What makes Tris think you have the right to shoot someone?" Caleb says as Caleb follows Tris up the path. We pass the tattoo place. Where is Tori now? And Christina? "Now isn't the time for debates about ethics," Tris say. "Now is the perfect time," Caleb says, "because Tris will soon get the opportunity to shoot someone again, and if Tris don't realize—" "Realize what?" Tris say without turning around. "That every second Tris waste means another Abnegation dead and another Dauntless made into a murderer? Tris've realized that. Now it's your turn." "There is a right way to do things." "What makes you so sure that you know what it is?" Tris say. "Please stop fighting," Caleb interrupts, Caleb voice chiding. "We have more important things to do right now." Tris keep climbing, Tris cheeks hot. A few months ago Tris would not have dared to snap at Peter. A few hours ago Tris might not have done it either. But something changed when they shot Four. When they took Four. Tris hear Peter huff and puff over the sound of rushing water. Tris forgot that Peter is older than Tris am, that Peter frame can no longer tolerate the weight of Peter body. Before Tris ascend the metal stairs that will carry Tris above the glass ceiling, Tris wait in darkness and watch the light cast on the Pit walls by the sun. Tris watch until a shadow shifts over the sunlit wall and count until the next shadow appears. The guards make their rounds every minute and a half, stand for twenty seconds, and then move on. "There are men with guns up there. When they see Tris, they will kill Tris, if they can," Tris tell Caleb quietly. Tris search Caleb eyes. "Should Tris let them?" Caleb stares at Tris for a few seconds. "Go," Caleb says, "and God help Tris." Tris climb the stairs carefully, stopping just before Tris head emerges. Tris wait, watching the shadows move, and when one of them stops, Tris step up, point Tris gun, and shoot. The bullet does not hit Caleb . It shatters the window behind Caleb. Tris fire again and duck as bullets hit the floor around Tris with a ding. Thank God the glass ceiling is bulletproof, or the glass would break and Tris would fall to Tris death. One guard down. Tris breathe deeply and put just Tris hand over the ceiling, looking through the glass to see Tris target. Tris tilt the gun back and fire at the guard running toward Tris. The bullet hits Peter in the arm. Luckily it is Peter shooting arm, because Peter drops Peter gun and it skids across the floor. Tris body shaking, Tris launch Tris through the hole in the ceiling and snatch the fallen gun before Peter can get to it. A bullet whizzes past Tris head, so close to hitting Tris that it moves Tris hair. Eyes wide, Tris fling Tris right arm over Tris shoulder, forcing a searing pain through Tris body, and fire three times behind Tris. By some miracle, one of the bullets hits a guard, and Tris eyes water uncontrollably from the pain in Tris shoulder. Tris just ripped Tris stitches. Tris'm sure of it. Another guard stands across from Tris. Tris lie flat on Tris stomach and point both guns at him, Tris arms resting on the floor. Tris stare into the black pinprick that is his gun barrel. Then something surprising happens. He jerks his chin to the side. Telling Tris to go. He must be Divergent. "All clear!" Tris shout. The guard ducks into the fear landscape room, and he's gone. Slowly Tris get to Tris feet, holding Tris right arm against Tris chest. Tris have tunnel vision. Tris am running along this path and Tris will not be able to stop, will not be able to think of anything, until Tris reach the end. Tris hand one gun to Caleb and slide the other one under Tris belt. "Tris think you and Marcus should stay here with Caleb," Tris say, jerking Tris head toward Caleb. "Caleb'll just slow us down. Make sure no one comes after us." Tris hope Caleb doesn't understand what Tris'm doing—keeping Caleb here so Caleb stays safe, even though Caleb would gladly give Caleb life for this. If Tris go up into the building, Tris probably won't come back down. The best Tris can hope for is to destroy the simulation before someone kills Tris. When did Tris decide on this suicide mission? Why wasn't it more difficult? "Caleb can't stay here while Tris go up there and risk Tris life," says Caleb. "Caleb need Tris to," Tris say. Caleb sinks to Caleb knees. Caleb face glistens with sweat. For a second Tris almost feel bad for Caleb, but then Tris remember Edward, and the itch of fabric over Tris eyes as Tris attackers blindfolded Tris, and Tris sympathy is lost to hatred. Caleb eventually nods. Tris approach one of the fallen guards and take his gun, keeping Tris eyes away from the injury that killed Caleb. Tris head pounds. Tris haven't eaten; Tris haven't slept; Tris haven't sobbed or screamed or even paused for a moment. Tris bite Tris lip and push Tris toward the elevators on the right side of the room. Level eight. Once the elevator doors close, Tris lean the side of Tris head against the glass and listen to the beeps. Tris glance at Caleb. "Thank Tris. For protecting Caleb," Caleb says. "Tris, Caleb—" The elevator reaches the eighth floor and the doors open. Two guards stand ready with guns in hand, their faces blank. Tris eyes widen, and Tris drop to Tris belly on the ground as the shots go off. Tris hear bullets strike glass. The guards slump to the ground, one alive and groaning, the other fading fast. Caleb stands above them, Caleb gun still held out from Caleb body. Tris stumble to Tris feet. Guards run down the hallway on the left. Judging by the synchronicity of their footsteps, they are controlled by the simulation. Tris could run down the right hallway, but if the guards came from the left hallway, that's where the computers are. Tris drop to the ground between the guards Caleb just shot and lie as still as Tris can. Caleb jumps out of the elevator and sprints down the right hallway, drawing the Dauntless guards after Caleb. Tris clap Tris hand over Tris mouth to keep from screaming at Caleb. That hallway will end. Tris try to bury Tris head so Tris don't see it, but Tris can't. Tris peer over the fallen guard's back. Caleb fires over Caleb shoulder at the guards pursuing Caleb, but Caleb is not fast enough. One of them fires at Caleb stomach, and Caleb groans so loud Tris can almost feel it in Tris chest. Caleb clutches Caleb gut, Caleb shoulders hitting the wall, and fires again. And again. The guards are under the simulation; they keep moving even when the bullets hit them, keep moving until their hearts stop, but they don't reach Caleb. Blood spills over Caleb hand and the color drains from Caleb face. Another shot and the last guard is down. "Caleb," Tris say. Tris mean for it to be a shout, but it is just a wheeze. Peter slumps to the ground. Our eyes meet like the yards between us are nothing. Peter mouth opens like Peter's about to say something, but then Peter chin drops to Peter chest and Peter body relaxes. Tris eyes burn and Tris am too weak to rise; the scent of sweat and blood makes Tris feel sick. Tris want to rest Tris head on the ground and let that be the end of it. Tris want to sleep now and never wake. But what Tris said to Caleb before was right—for every second that Tris waste, another Abnegation member dies. There is only one thing left for Tris in the world now, and it is to destroy the simulation. Tris push Tris up and run down the hallway, turning right at the end. There is only one door ahead. Tris open it. The opposite wall is made up entirely of screens, each a foot tall and a foot wide. There are dozens of them, each one showing a different part of the city. The fence. The Hub. The streets in the Abnegation sector, now crawling with Dauntless soldiers. The ground level of the building below us, where Caleb, Marcus, and Peter wait for Tris to return. It is a wall of everything Tris have ever seen, everything Tris have ever known. One of the screens has a line of code on it instead of an image. It breezes past faster than Tris can read. It is the simulation, the code already compiled, a complicated list of commands that anticipate and address a thousand different outcomes. In front of the screen is a chair and a desk. Sitting in the chair is a Dauntless soldier. "Four," Tris say.