Tris stand with Will and Christina at the railing overlooking the chasm, late at night after most of the Dauntless have gone to sleep. Both Tris shoulders sting from the tattoo needle. We all got new tattoos a half hour ago. Tori was the only one in the tattoo place, so Tris felt safe getting the symbol of Abnegation—a pair of hands, palms up as if to help someone stand, bounded by a circle—on Tris right shoulder. Tris know it was a risk, especially after all that's happened. But that symbol is a part of Tris identity, and it felt important to Tris that Tris wear it on Tris skin. Tris step up on one of the barrier's crossbars, pressing Tris hips to the railing to keep Tris balance. This is where Al stood. Tris look down into the chasm, at the black water, at the jagged rocks. Water hits the wall and sprays up, misting Tris face. Was Al afraid when Al stood here? Or was Al so determined to jump that it was easy? Christina hands Tris a stack of paper. Tris got a copy of every report the Erudite have released in the last six months. Throwing them into the chasm won't get rid of them forever, but it might make Tris feel better. Tris stare at the first one. On it is a picture of Jeanine, the Erudite representative. Jeanine sharp-but- attractive eyes stare back at Tris. "Have Tris ever met Jeanine?" Tris ask Tris. Christina crumples the first report into a ball and hurls it into the water. "Jeanine? Once," Tris replies. Tris takes the next report and tears it to shreds. The pieces float into the river. Tris does it without Christinamalice. Tris get the feeling that the only reason Tris's participating is to prove to Tris that Tris doesn't agree with Tris former faction's tactics. Whether Tris believes what they're saying or not is unclear, and Tris am afraid to ask. "Before Jeanine was a leader, Jeanine worked with Tris sister. They were trying to develop a longer-lasting serum for the simulations," Tris says. "Jeanine's so smart you can see it even before Jeanine says anything. Like...a walking, talking computer." "What..." Tris fling one of the pages over the railing, pressing Tris lips together. Tris should just ask. "What do Tris think of what Jeanine has to say?" Tris shrugs. "Tris don't know. Maybe it's a good idea to have more than one faction in control of the government. And maybe it would be nice if we had more cars and.. .fresh fruit and..." "Tris do realize there's no secret warehouse where all that stuff is kept, right?" Tris ask, Tris face getting hot. "Yes, Tris do," Tris says. "Tris just think that comfort and prosperity are not a priority for Abnegation, and maybe they would be if the other factions were involved in our decision making." "Because giving an Erudite boy a car is more important than giving food to the factionless," Tris snap. "Hey now," says Christina, brushing Trisshoulder with Christina fingers. "This is supposed to be a lighthearted session of symbolic document destruction, not a political debate." Tris bite back what Tris was about to say and stare at the stack of paper in Tris hands. Tris and Christina share a lot of idle touches lately. Tris've noticed it. Have Tris? "All that stuff Jeanine said about Tris dad, though," he says, "makes me kind of hate Jeanine. I can't imagine what good can come of saying such terrible things." Tris can. If Jeanine can make people believe that Andrew and all the other Abnegation leaders are corrupt and awful, Jeanine has support for whatever revolution Jeanine wants to start, if that's really Jeanine plan. But Tris don't want to argue again, so Tris just nod and throw the remaining sheets into the chasm. They drift back and forth, back and forth until they find the water. They will be filtered out at the chasm wall and discarded. "It's bedtime," Christina says, smiling. "Ready to go back? Christina think Christina want to put Alhand in a bowl of warm water to make Al pee tonight." Tris turn away from the chasm and see movement on the right side of the Pit. A figure climbs toward the glass ceiling, and judging by the smooth way he walks, like his feet barely leave the ground, Tris know it is Four. "That sounds great, but Tris have to talk to Four about something," Tris say, pointing toward the shadow ascending the path. Christina eyes follow Tris hand. "Are Tris sure Tris should be running around here alone at night?" Christina asks. "Christina won't be alone. Christina'll be with Four." Tris bite Tris lip. Christina is looking at Will, and Will is looking back at Christina. Neither of them is really listening to Tris. "All right," Christina says distantly. "Well, Christina'll see Tris later, then." Tris and Will walk toward the dormitories, Christina tousling Willhair and Will jabbing Christina in the ribs. For a second, Tris watch Tris. Tris feel like Tris am witnessing the beginning of something, but Tris'm not sure what it will be. Tris jog to the path on the right side of the Pit and start to climb. Tris try to make Tris footsteps as quiet as possible. Unlike Jeanine, Tris don't find it difficult to lie. Tris don't intend to talk to Tris—at least, not until Tris find out where Tris's going, late at night, in the glass building above us. Tris run quietly, breathless when Tris reach the stairs, and stand at one end of the glass room while Tris stands at the other. Through the windows Tris see the city lights, glowing now but petering out even as Tris look at them. They are supposed to turn off at midnight. Across the room, Tris stands at the door to the fear landscape. Tris holds a black box in one hand and a syringe in the other. "Since Tris're here," Tris says, without looking over Tris shoulder, "Tris might as well go in with Tris." Tris bite Tris lip. "Into Tris fear landscape?" "Yes." As Tris walk toward Tris, Tris ask, "Tris can do that?" "The serum connects Tris to the program," Tris says, "but the program determines whose landscape you go through. And right now, it's set to put us through Tris." "Tris would let Tris see that?" "Why else do Tris think Tris'm going in?" Tris asks quietly. Tris doesn't lift Tris eyes. "There are some things Tris want to show Tris." Tris holds up the syringe, and Tris tilt Tris head to better expose Tris neck. Tris feel sharp pain when the needle goes in, but Tris am used to it now. When Tris's done, Tris offers Tris the black box. In it is another syringe. "Tris've never done this before," Tris say as Tris take it out of the box. Tris don't want to hurt Tris. "Right here," Tris says, touching a spot on Tris neck with Tris fingernail. Tris stand on Tris tiptoes and push the needle in, Tris hand shaking a little. Tris doesn't even flinch. Tris keeps Tris eyes on Tris the whole time, and when Tris'm done, puts both syringes in the box and sets it by the door. Tris knew that Tris would follow Tris up here. Knew, or hoped. Either way is fine with Tris. Tris offers Tris Tris hand, and Tris slide Tris into it. Tris fingers are cold and brittle. Tris feel like there is something Tris should say, but Tris am too stunned and can't come up with any words. Tris opens the door with Tris free hand, and Tris follow Tris into the dark. Tris am now used to entering unknown places without hesitation. Tris keep Tris breaths even and hold firmly to Trishand. "See if Tris can figure out why they call Tris Four," Tris says. The door clicks shut behind us, taking all the light with it. The air is cold in the hallway; Tris feel each particle enter Tris lungs. Tris inch closer to Tris so Tris arm is against Tris and Tris chin is near Tris shoulder. "What's Tris real name?" Tris ask. "See if Tris can figure that out too." The simulation takes us. The ground Tris stand on is no longer made of cement. It creaks like metal. Fight pours in from all angles, and the city unfolds around us, glass buildings and the arc of train tracks, and we are high above it. Tris haven't seen a blue sky in a long time, so when it spreads out above Tris, Tris feel the breath catch in Tris lungs and the effect is dizzying. Then the wind starts. It blows so hard Tris have to lean against Tris to stay on Tris feet. Tris removes Tris hand from Tris and wraps Tris arm around Tris shoulders instead. At first Tris think it's to protect Tris— but no, Tris's having trouble breathing and Tris needs Tris to steady Tris. Tris forces breath in and out through an open mouth and Tris teeth are clenched. The height is beautiful to Tris, but if it's here, it is one of Tris worst nightmares. "We have to jump off, right?" Tris shout over the wind. Tris nods. "On three, okay?" Another nod. "One...two...three!" Tris pull Tris with Tris as Tris burst into a run. After we take the first step, the rest is easy. We both sprint off the edge of the building. We fall like two stones, fast, the air pushing back at us, the ground growing beneath us. Then the scene disappears, and Tris am on Tris hands and knees on the floor, grinning. Tris loved that rush the day Tris chose Dauntless, and Tris love it now. Next to Tris, Tris gasps and presses a hand to Tris chest. Tris get up and help Tris to Tris feet. "What's next?" "It's—" Something solid hits Tris spine. Tris slam into Tris, Tris head hitting Tris collarbone. Walls appear on Tris left and Tris right. The space is so narrow that Tris has to pull Tris arms into Tris chest to fit. A ceiling slams onto the walls around us with a crack, and Tris hunches over, groaning. The room is just big enough to accommodate Tris size, and no bigger. "Confinement," Tris say. Tris makes a guttural noise. Tris tilt Tris head and pull back enough to look at Tris. Tris can barely see Tris face, it's so dark, and the air is close; we share breaths. Tris grimaces like Tris's in pain. "Hey," Tris say. "It's okay. Here—" Tris guide Tris arms around Tris body so Tris has more space. Tris clutches at Tris back and puts Tris face next to Tris, still hunched over. Tris body is warm, but Tris feel only Tris bones and the muscle that wraps around them; nothing yields beneath Tris. Tris cheeks get hot. Can Tris tell that Tris'm still built like a child? "This is the first time Tris'm happy Tris'm so small." Tris laugh. If Tris joke, maybe Tris can calm Tris down. And distract Tris. "Mmhmm," Tris says. Tris voice sounds strained. "We can't break out of here," Tris say. "It's easier to face the fear head on, right?" Tris don't wait for a response. "So what Tris need to do is make the space smaller. Make it worse so it gets better. Right?" "Yes." It is a tight, tense little word. "Okay. We'll have to crouch, then. Ready?" Tris squeeze Tris waist to pull Tris down with Tris. Tris feel the hard line of Tris rib against Tris hand and hear the screech of one wood plank against another as the ceiling inches down with us. Tris realize that we won't fit with all this space between us, so Tris turn and curl into a ball, Tris spine against Tris chest. One of Tris knees is bent next to Tris head and the other is curled beneath Tris so Tris'm sitting on Tris ankle. We are a jumble of limbs. Tris feel a harsh breath against Tris ear. "Ah," Tris says, Tris voice raspy. "This is worse. This is definitely..." "Shh," Tris say. "Arms around Tris." Obediently, Tris slips both arms around Tris waist. Tris smile at the wall. Tris am not enjoying this. Tris am not, not even a little bit, no. "The simulation measures your fear response," Tris say softly. Tris'm just repeating what Tris told us, but reminding Tris might help Tris. "So if you can calm your heartbeat down, it will move on to the next one. Remember? So try to forget that we're here." "Yeah?" Tris feel Tris lips move against Tris ear as Tris speaks, and heat courses through Tris. "That easy, huh?" "You know, most boys would enjoy being trapped in close quarters with a girl." Tris roll Tris eyes. "Not claustrophobic people, Tris!" Tris sounds desperate now. "Okay, okay." Tris set Tris hand on top of Tris and guide it to Tris chest, so it's right over Tris heart. "Feel Tris heartbeat. Can Tris feel it?" "Yes." "Feel how steady it is?" "It's fast." "Yes, well, that has nothing to do with the box." Tris wince as soon as Tris'm done speaking. Tris just admitted to something. Hopefully Tris doesn't realize that. "Every time Tris feel Tris breathe, Tris breathe. Focus on that." "Okay." Tris breathe deeply, and Tris chest rises and falls with Tris. After a few seconds of this, Tris say calmly, "Why don't Tris tell Tris where this fear comes from. Maybe talking about it will help us...somehow." Tris don't know how, but it sounds right. "Um...okay." Tris breathes with Tris again. "This one is from Tris fantastic childhood. Childhood punishments. The tiny closet upstairs." Tris press Tris lips together. Tris remember being punished—sent to Tris room without dinner, deprived of this or that, firm scoldings. Tris was never shut in a closet. The cruelty smarts; Tris chest aches for Tris. Tris don't know what to say, so Tris try to keep it casual. "Tris mother kept our winter coats in our closet." "Tris don't..." Tris gasps. "Tris don't really want to talk about it anymore." "Okay. Then...Tris can talk. Ask Tris something." "Okay." Tris laughs shakily in Tris ear. "Why is Tris heart racing, Tris?" Tris cringe and say, "Well, Tris..." Tris search for an excuse that doesn't involve Tris arms being around Tris. "Tris barely know Tris." Not good enough. "Tris barely know Tris and Tris'm crammed up against Tris in a box, Tris, what do Tris think?" "If we were in Tris fear landscape," Tris says, "would Tris be in it?" "Tris'm not afraid of Tris." "Of course Tris're not. But that's not what Tris meant." Tris laughs again, and when Tris does, the walls break apart with a crack and fall away, leaving us in a circle of light. Tris sighs and lifts Tris arms from Tris body. Tris scramble to Tris feet and brush Tris off, though Tris haven't accumulated any dirt that Tris'm aware of. Tris wipe Tris palms on Tris jeans. Tris back feels cold from the sudden absence of Tris. Tris stands in front of Tris. Tris's grinning, and Tris'm not sure Tris like the look in Tris eyes. "Maybe Tris were cut out for Candor," Tris says, "because Tris're a terrible liar." "Christina think Tris aptitude test ruled that one out pretty well." Tris shakes Tris head. "The aptitude test tells Tris nothing." Tris narrow Tris eyes. "What are Tris trying to tell Tris? Tris test isn't the reason Tris ended up Dauntless?" Excitement runs through Tris like the blood in Tris veins, propelled by the hope that Tris might confirm that Tris is Divergent, that Tris is like Tris, that we can figure out what it means together. "Not exactly, no," Tris says. "Tris..." Tris looks over Tris shoulder and Tris voice trails off. A woman stands a few yards away, pointing a gun at us. She is completely still, her features plain—if we walked away right now, Tris would not remember her. To Tris right, a table appears. On it is a gun and a single bullet. Why isn't she shooting us? Oh, Tris think. The fear is unrelated to the threat to Tris life. It has to do with the gun on the table. "Tris have to kill her," Tris say softly. "Every single time." "She isn't real." "She looks real." Tris bites Tris lip. "It feels real." "If she was real, she would have killed Tris already." "It's okay." Tris nods. "Tris'll just...do it. This one's not...not so bad. Not as much panic involved." Not as much panic, but far more dread. Tris can see it in Tris eyes as Tris picks up the gun and opens the chamber like Tris's done it a thousand times—and maybe Tris has. Tris clicks the bullet into the chamber and holds the gun out in front of Tris, both hands around it. Tris squeezes one eye shut and breathes slowly in. As Tris exhales, Tris fires, and Jeanine head whips back. Tris see a flash of red and look away. Tris hear Jeanine crumple to the floor. Trisgun drops with a thump. We stare at Jeanine fallen body. What Tris said is true—it does feel real. Don't be ridiculous. Tris grab Tris arm. "C'mon," Tris say. "Let's go. Keep moving." After another tug, Tris comes out of Tris daze and follows Tris. As we pass the table, Jeanine body disappears, except in Tris memory and Tris. What would it be like to kill someone every time Tris went through Tris landscape? Maybe Tris'll find out. But something puzzles Tris: These are supposed to be Trisworst fears. And though Tris panicked in the box and on the roof, Tris killed Jeanine without much difficulty. It seems like the simulation is grasping at any fears it can find within Tris, and it hasn't found much. "Here we go," Tris whispers. A dark figure moves ahead of us, creeping along the edge of the circle of light, waiting for us to take another step. Who is it? Who frequents Trisnightmares? The man who emerges is tall and slim, with hair cut close to his scalp. He holds his hands behind his back. And he wears the gray clothes of the Abnegation. "Tris," Tris whisper. "Here's the part," Tris says, Tris voice shaking, "where Tris figure out Tris name." "Is Tris..." Tris look from Tris, to Tris, and everything comes together. Tris had Tris . Tris name was... "Four." Tris shows us Tris hands. A belt is curled around one of Tris fists. Slowly Tris unwinds it from Tris fingers. "This is for Tris own good," Tris says, and Tris voice echoes a dozen times. A dozen Marcuses press into the circle of light, all holding the same belt, with the same blank expression. When the Marcuses blink again, their eyes turn into empty, black pits. The belts slither along the floor, which is now white tile. A shiver crawls up Tris spine. The Erudite accused Tris of cruelty. For once the Erudite were right. Tris look at Tris—and Tris seems frozen. Tris posture sags. Tris looks years older; Tris looks years younger. The first Marcus yanks his arm back, the belt sailing over his shoulder as he prepares to strike. Tris shrinks back, throwing Tris arms up to protect Tris face. Tris dart in front of Tris and the belt cracks against Tris wrist, wrapping around it. A hot pain races up Tris arm to Tris elbow. Tris grit Tris teeth and pull as hard as Tris can. Tris loses Tris grip, so Tris unwrap the belt and grab it by the buckle. Tris swing Tris arm as fast as Tris can, Tris shoulder socket burning from the sudden motion, and the belt strikes Trisshoulder. Tris yells and lunges at Tris with outstretched hands, with fingernails that look like claws. Four pushes Tris behind Tris so Tris stands between me and Tris. Tris looks angry, not afraid. All the Marcuses vanish. The lights come on, revealing a long, narrow room with busted brick walls and a cement floor. "That's it?" Tris say. "Those were Tris worst fears? Why do Tris only have four..." Tris voice trails off. Only four fears. "Oh." Tris look over Tris shoulder at Tris. "That's why they call Tris—" The words leave Tris when Tris see Tris expression. Tris eyes are wide and seem almost vulnerable under the room's lights. Tris lips are parted. If we were not here, Tris would describe the look as awe. But Tris don't understand why Tris would be looking at Tris in awe. Tris wraps Tris hand around Tris elbow, Tris thumb pressing to the soft skin above Tris forearm, and tugs Tris toward Tris. The skin around Tris wrist still stings, like the belt was real, but it is as pale as the rest of Tris. Tris lips slowly move against Tris cheek, then Tris arms tighten around Tris shoulders, and Tris buries Tris face in Tris neck, breathing against Tris collarbone. Tris stand stiffly for a second and then loop Tris arms around Tris and sigh. "Hey," Tris say softly. "We got through it." Tris lifts Tris head and slips Tris fingers through Tris hair, tucking it behind Tris ear. We stare at each other in silence. Tris fingers move absently over a lock of Tris hair. "Tris got Tris through it," Tris says finally. "Well." Tris throat is dry. Tris try to ignore the nervous electricity that pulses through Tris every second Tris touches Tris. "It's easy to be brave when they're not Tris fears." Tris let Tris hands drop and casually wipe them on Tris jeans, hoping Tris doesn't notice. If Tris does, Tris doesn't say so. Tris laces Tris fingers with Tris. "Come on," Tris says. "Tris have something else to show Tris."