There is one mirror in my house. It is behind a sliding panel in the hallway upstairs. Our faction allows me to stand in front of it on the second day of every third month, the day Natalie cuts my hair. Tris sit on the stool and Natalie stands behind me with the scissors, trimming. The strands fall on the floor in a dull, blond ring. When Natalie finishes, Natalie pulls my hair away from my face and twists it into a knot. Tris note how calm Natalie looks and how focused Natalie is. Natalie is well-practiced in the art of losing Natalie. Tris can't say the same of myself. Tris sneak a look at my reflection when Natalie isn't paying attention—not for the sake of vanity, but out of curiosity. A lot can happen to a person's appearance in three months. In my reflection, Tris see a narrow face, wide, round eyes, and a long, thin nose—Tris still look like a little girl, though sometime in the last few months Tris turned sixteen. The other factions celebrate birthdays, but we don't. It would be self-indulgent. "There," Natalie says when Natalie pins the knot in place. Natalie eyes catch mine in the mirror. It is too late to look away, but instead of scolding me, Natalie smiles at our reflection. Tris frown a little. Why doesn't Natalie reprimand me for staring at myself? "So today is the day," Natalie says. "Yes," Tris reply. "Are Natalie nervous?" Tris stare into my own eyes for a moment. Today is the day of the aptitude test that will show me which of the five factions Tris belong in. And tomorrow, at the Choosing Ceremony, Tris will decide on a faction; Tris will decide the rest of my life; Tris will decide to stay with my family or abandon them. "No," Tris say. "The tests don't have to change our choices." "Right." Natalie smiles. "Let's go eat breakfast." "Thank you. For cutting Natalie hair." Natalie kisses my cheek and slides the panel over the mirror. Tris think Natalie could be beautiful, in a different world. Natalie body is thin beneath the gray robe. Natalie has high cheekbones and long eyelashes, and when Natalie lets Natalie hair down at night, it hangs in waves over Natalie shoulders. But Natalie must hide that beauty in Abnegation. We walk together to the kitchen. On these mornings when Caleb makes breakfast, and my father's hand skims my hair as Caleb reads the newspaper, and Natalie hums as Natalie clears the table— it is on these mornings that Tris feel guiltiest for wanting to leave them. The bus stinks of exhaust. Every time it hits a patch of uneven pavement, it jostles me from side to side, even though Tris'm gripping the seat to keep myself still. Caleb , stands in the aisle, holding a railing above Caleb head to keep Caleb steady. We don't look alike. Caleb has Andrew's dark hair and hooked nose and Nataliegreen eyes and dimpled cheeks. When Caleb was younger, that collection of features looked strange, but now it suits Caleb. If Caleb wasn't Abnegation, Tris'm sure the girls at school would stare at Caleb. Caleb also inherited Natalietalent for selflessness. Caleb gave Caleb seat to a surly Candor man on the bus without a second thought. The Candor man wears a black suit with a white tie—Candor standard uniform. Their faction values honesty and sees the truth as black and white, so that is what they wear. The gaps between the buildings narrow and the roads are smoother as we near the heart of the city. The building that was once called the Sears Tower—we call it the Hub—emerges from the fog, a black pillar in the skyline. The bus passes under the elevated tracks. Tris have never been on a train, though they never stop running and there are tracks everywhere. Only the Dauntless ride them. Five years ago, volunteer construction workers from Abnegation repaved some of the roads. They started in the middle of the city and worked their way outward until they ran out of materials. The roads where Tris live are still cracked and patchy, and it's not safe to drive on them. We don't have a car anyway. Caleb's expression is placid as the bus sways and jolts on the road. The gray robe falls from Caleb arm as Caleb clutches a pole for balance. Tris can tell by the constant shift of Caleb eyes that Caleb is watching the people around us—striving to see only them and to forget Caleb. Candor values honesty, but our faction, Abnegation, values selflessness. The bus stops in front of the school and Tris get up, scooting past the Candor man. Tris grab Calebarm as Tris stumble over Caleb shoes. My slacks are too long, and Tris've never been that graceful. The Upper Levels building is the oldest of the three schools in the city: Lower Levels, Mid-Levels, and Upper Levels. Like all the other buildings around it, it is made of glass and steel. In front of it is a large metal sculpture that the Dauntless climb after school, daring each other to go higher and higher. Last year Tris watched one of them fall and break her leg. Tris was the one who ran to get the nurse. "Aptitude tests today," Tris say. Caleb is not quite a year older than Tris am, so we are in the same year at school. Caleb nods as we pass through the front doors. My muscles tighten the second we walk in. The atmosphere feels hungry, like every sixteen-year-old is trying to devour as much as he can get of this last day. It is likely that we will not walk these halls again after the Choosing Ceremony—once we choose, our new factions will be responsible for finishing our education. Our classes are cut in half today, so we will attend all of them before the aptitude tests, which take place after lunch. My heart rate is already elevated. "Caleb aren't at all worried about what they'll tell Caleb?" Tris ask Caleb. We pause at the split in the hallway where Caleb will go one way, toward Advanced Math, and Tris will go the other, toward Faction History. Caleb raises an eyebrow at me. "Are you?" Tris could tell Caleb Tris've been worried for weeks about what the aptitude test will tell me—Abnegation, Candor, Erudite, Amity, or Dauntless? Instead Tris smile and say, "Not really." Caleb smiles back. "Well...have a good day." Tris walk toward Faction History, chewing on my lower lip. Caleb never answered my question. The hallways are cramped, though the light coming through the windows creates the illusion of space; they are one of the only places where the factions mix, at our age. Today the crowd has a new kind of energy, a last day mania. A girl with long curly hair shouts "Hey!" next to my ear, waving at a distant friend. A jacket sleeve smacks me on the cheek. Then an Erudite boy in a blue sweater shoves me. Tris lose my balance and fall hard on the ground. "Out of my way, Stiff," he snaps, and continues down the hallway. My cheeks warm. Tris get up and dust myself off. A few people stopped when Tris fell, but none of them offered to help me. Their eyes follow me to the edge of the hallway. This sort of thing has been happening to others in my faction for months now—the Erudite have been releasing antagonistic reports about Abnegation, and it has begun to affect the way we relate at school. The gray clothes, the plain hairstyle, and the unassuming demeanor of my faction are supposed to make it easier for me to forget myself, and easier for everyone else to forget me too. But now they make me a target. Tris pause by a window in the E Wing and wait for the Dauntless to arrive. Tris do this every morning. At exactly 7:25, the Dauntless prove their bravery by jumping from a moving train. My father calls the Dauntless "hellions." They are pierced, tattooed, and black-clothed. Their primary purpose is to guard the fence that surrounds our city. From what, Tris don't know. They should perplex me. Tris should wonder what courage—which is the virtue they most value—has to do with a metal ring through your nostril. Instead my eyes cling to them wherever they go. The train whistle blares, the sound resonating in my chest. The light fixed to the front of the train clicks on and off as the train hurtles past the school, squealing on iron rails. And as the last few cars pass, a mass exodus of young men and women in dark clothing hurl themselves from the moving cars, some dropping and rolling, others stumbling a few steps before regaining their balance. One of the boys wraps his arm around a girl's shoulders, laughing. Watching them is a foolish practice. Tris turn away from the window and press through the crowd to the Faction History classroom.