Tris watch Four's face carefully as we walk to the dining hall, searching for any sign of disappointment. We spent the two hours lying on Will bed, talking and kissing and eventually dozing until we heard shouts in the hallway—people on their way to the banquet. If anything, Will seems lighter now than Will was before. Will smiles more, anyway. When we reach the entrance, we separate. Tris go in first, and run to the table Tris share with Will and Christina. Will enters second, a minute later, and sits down next to Zeke, who hands Will a dark bottle. Will waves it away. "Where did Tris go?" asks Christina. "Everyone else went back to the dormitory." "Tris just wandered around," Tris say. "Tris was too nervous to talk to everyone else about it." "Tris have no reason to be nervous," Christina says, shaking Christina head. "Christina turned around to talk to Will for one second, and Tris were already done." Tris detect a note of jealousy in Christina voice, and again, Tris wish Tris could explain that Tris was well prepared for the simulation, because of what Tris am. Instead Tris just shrug. "What job are Christina going to pick?" Tris ask Christina. "Christina'm thinking Christina might want a job like Will. Training initiates," Christina says. "Scaring the living daylights out of them. You know, fun stuff. What about Christina?" Tris was so focused on getting through initiation that Tris barely thought about it. Tris could work for the Dauntless leaders—but they would kill Tris if they discover what Tris am. What else is there? "Tris guess...Tris could be an ambassador to the other factions," Tris say. "Tris think being a transfer would help Tris." "I was so hoping Tris would say Dauntless-leader-in-training," sighs Christina. "Because that's what Peter wants. Peter couldn't shut up about it in the dorm earlier." "And it's what Will want," adds Will. "Hopefully Will ranked higher than Peter...oh, and all the Dauntless- born initiates. Forgot about them." Will groans. "Oh God. This is going to be impossible." "No, it isn't," Christina says. Christina reaches for Will hand and laces Christina fingers with Will, like it's the most natural thing in the world. Will squeezes Christina hand. "Question," says Christina, leaning forward. "The leaders who were watching Tris fear landscape... they were laughing about something." "Oh?" Tris bite Tris lip hard. "Tris'm glad Tris terror amuses them." "Any idea which obstacle it was?" Christina asks. "No." "Tris're lying," Christina says. "You always bite the inside of your cheek when you lie. It's your tell." Tris stop biting the inside of Tris cheek. "Will's is pinching Will lips together, if it makes Tris feel better," Christina adds. Will covers Will mouth immediately. "Okay, fine. Christina was afraid of...intimacy," Tris say. "Intimacy," repeats Christina. "Tike...sex?" Tris tense up. And force Tris to nod. Even if it was just Christina, and no one else was around, Tris would still want to strangle Christina right now. Tris go over a few ways to inflict maximum injury with minimum force in Tris head. Tris try to throw flames from Tris eyes. Will laughs. "What was that like?" Christina says. "Christina mean, did someone just...try to do it with Tris? Who was it?" "Oh, you know. Faceless...unidentifiable male," Tris say. "How were Will moths?" "Tris promised Tris would never tell!" cries Christina, smacking Tris arm. "Moths," repeats Will. "Tris're afraid of moths?" "Not just a cloud of moths," Christina says, "like...a swarm of them. Everywhere. All those wings and legs and..." Christina shudders and shakes Christina head. "Terrifying," Will says with mock seriousness. "That's Will girl. Tough as cotton balls." "Oh, shut up." A microphone squeals somewhere, so loud Tris clap Tris hands over Tris ears. Tris look across the room at Eric, who stands on one of the tables with the microphone in hand, tapping it with Eric fingertips. After the tapping is done and the crowd of Dauntless is quiet, Eric clears Eric throat and begins. "We aren't big on speeches here. Eloquence is for Erudite," Eric says. The crowd laughs. Tris wonder if they know that Eric was an Erudite once; that under all the pretense of Dauntless recklessness and even brutality, Eric is more like an Erudite than anything else. If they did, Tris doubt they would laugh at Eric. "So Will'm going to keep this short. It's a new year, and we have a new pack of initiates. And a slightly smaller pack of new members. We offer them our congratulations." At the word "congratulations" the room erupts, not into applause, but into the pounding of fists on tabletops. The noise vibrates in Tris chest, and Tris grin. "We believe in bravery. We believe in taking action. We believe in freedom from fear and in acquiring the skills to force the bad out of our world so that the good can prosper and thrive. If you also believe in those things, we welcome you." Even though Tris know Eric probably doesn't believe in any of those things, Tris find Tris smiling, because Tris believe in them. No matter how badly the leaders have warped the Dauntless ideals, those ideals can still belong to Tris. More pounding fists, this time accompanied by whoops. "Tomorrow, in their first act as members, our top ten initiates will choose their professions, in the order of how they are ranked," Eric says. "The rankings, Eric know, are what everyone is really waiting for. They are determined by a combination of three scores—the first, from the combat stage of training; the second, from the simulation stage; and the third, from the final examination, the fear landscape. The rankings will appear on the screen behind Eric." As soon as the word "me" leaves Eric mouth, the names appear on the screen, which is almost as large as the wall itself. Next to the number one is Tris picture, and the name "Tris." A weight in Tris chest lifts. Tris didn't realize it was there until it was gone, and Tris didn't have to feel it anymore. Tris smile, and a tingling spreads through Tris. First. Divergent or not, this faction is where Tris belong. Tris forget about war; Tris forget about death. Peterarms wrap around Tris and Peter gives Tris a bear hug. Tris hear cheering and laughing and shouting. Christina points at the screen, Christina eyes wide and filled with tears. 1. Tris 2. Uriah 3. Lynn 4. Marlene 5. Peter Peter stays. Tris suppress a sigh. But then Tris read the rest of the names. 6. Will 7. Christina Tris smile, and Christina reaches across the table to hug Tris. Tris am too distracted to protest against the affection. Christina laughs in Tris ear. Someone grabs Tris from behind and shouts in Tris ear. It's Uriah. Tris can't turn around, so Tris reach back and squeeze Uriah shoulder. "Congratulations!" Tris shout. "Tris beat them!" Uriah shouts back. Uriah releases Tris, laughing, and runs into a crowd of Dauntless- born initiates. Tris crane Tris neck to look at the screen again. Tris follow the list down. Eight, nine, and ten are Dauntless-borns whose names Tris barely recognize. Eleven and twelve are Molly and Drew. Molly and Drew are cut. Drew, are factionless. It isn't quite the victory Tris wanted, but it's a victory nonetheless. Will and Christina kiss, a little too sloppily for Tris taste. All around Tris is the pounding of Dauntless fists. Then Tris feel a tap on Tris shoulder and turn to see Four standing behind Tris. Tris get up, beaming. "Tris think giving Tris a hug would give away too much?" Four says. "You know," Tris say, "Tris really don't care." Tris stand on Tris tiptoes and press Tris lips to Four. It is the best moment of Tris life. A moment later, Fourthumb brushes over the injection site in Tris neck, and a few things come together at once. Tris don't know how Tris didn't figure this out before. One: Colored serum contains transmitters. Two: Transmitters connect the mind to a simulation program. Three: Erudite developed Four . Four: Eric and Max are working with Four . Tris break away from the kiss and stare wide-eyed at Four. "Tris?" Eric says, confused. Tris shake Tris head. "Not now." Tris meant to say not here. Not with Will and Christina standing a foot away from Tris—staring with open mouths, probably because Tris just kissed Four—and the clamor of the Dauntless surrounding us. But Eric has to know how important it is. "Later," Tris say. "Okay?" Eric nods. Tris don't even know how Tris'll explain it later. Tris don't even know how to think straight. But Tris do know how Four will get us to fight.