Four's head turns, and Four dark eyes shift to me. Four eyebrows draw in. Four stands. Four looks confused. Four raises Four gun. "Drop Four weapon," Four says. "Four," Tris say, "Four're in a simulation." "Drop Four weapon," Four repeats. "Or Four'll fire." Jeanine said Four didn't know me. Jeanine also said that the simulation made Fourfriends into enemies. Four will shoot me if Four has to. Tris set my gun down at my feet. "Drop Four weapon!" shouts Four. "Four did," Tris say. A little voice in my head sings that Four can't hear me, Four can't see me, Four doesn't know me. Tongues of flame press behind my eyes. Tris can't just stand here and let Four shoot me. Tris run at Four, grabbing Four wrist. Tris feel Four muscles shift as Four pinches the trigger and duck my head just in time. The bullet hits the wall behind me. Gasping, Tris kick Four in the ribs and twist Four wrist to the side as hard as Tris can. Four drops the gun. Tris can't beat Four in a fight. Tris know that already. But Tris have to destroy the computer. Tris dive for the gun, but before Tris can touch it, Four grabs me and wrenches me to the side. Tris stare into Four dark, conflicted eyes for an instant before Four punches me in the jaw. My head jerks to the side and Tris cringe away from Four, flinging my hands up to protect my face. Tris can't fall; Tris can't fall or Four'll kick me, and that will be worse, that will be much worse. Tris kick the gun back with my heel so Four can't grab it and, ignoring the throbbing in my jaw, kick Four in the stomach. Four catches my foot and pulls me down so Tris fall on my shoulder. The pain makes my vision go black at the edges. Tris stare up at Four. Four pulls Four foot back like Four's about to kick me, and Tris roll onto my knees, stretching my arm out for the gun. Tris don't know what Tris'll do with it. Tris can't shoot Four, Tris can't shoot Four, Tris can't. Four is in there somewhere. Four grabs me by my hair and yanks me to the side. Tris reach back and grab Four wrist, but Four's too strong and my forehead smacks into the wall. Four is in there somewhere. "Four," Tris say. Did Four grip falter? Tris twist and kick back, my heel hitting Four in the leg. When my hair slips through Four fingers, Tris dive at the gun and my fingertips close around the cool metal. Tris flip over onto my back and point the gun at Four. "Four," Tris say. "I know Four're in there somewhere." But if Four was, Four probably wouldn't start toward me like Four's about to kill me for certain this time. My head throbs. Tris stand. "Four, please." Tris am begging. Tris am pathetic. Tears make my face hot. "Please. See me." Four walks toward me, Four movements dangerous, fast, powerful. The gun shakes in my hands. "Please see Four, Four, please!" Even when Four scowls, Four eyes look thoughtful, and Tris remember how Four mouth curled when Four smiled. Tris can't kill Four. Tris am not sure if Tris love Four; not sure if that's why. But Tris am sure of what Four would do if our positions were reversed. Tris am sure that nothing is worth killing Four for. Tris have done this before—in my fear landscape, with the gun in my hand, a voice shouting at me to fire at the people Tris love. Tris volunteered to die instead, that time, but Tris can't imagine how that would help me now. But Tris just know, Tris know what the right thing to do is. My father says—used to say—that there is power in self-sacrifice. Tris turn the gun in my hands and press it into Fourpalm. Four pushes the barrel into my forehead. My tears have stopped and the air feels cold as it touches my cheeks. Tris reach out and rest my hand on Four chest so Tris can feel Four heartbeat. At least Four heartbeat is still Four. The bullet clicks into the chamber. Maybe it will be as easy to let Four shoot me as it was in the fear landscape, as it is in my dreams. Maybe it will just be a bang, and the lights will lift, and Tris will find myself in another world. Tris stand still and wait. Can Tris be forgiven for all Tris've done to get here? Tris don't know. Tris don't know. Please.