"Since there are an odd number of you, one of you won't be fighting today," says Four, stepping away from the board in the training room. Four gives me a look. The space next to my name is blank. The knot in my stomach unravels. A reprieve. "This isn't good," says Christina, nudging me with Four elbow. Four elbow prods one of my sore muscles—Tris have more sore muscles than not-sore muscles, this morning—and Tris wince. "Ow." "Sorry," Four says. "But look. Four'm up against the Tank." Four and Tris sat together at breakfast, and earlier Four shielded me from the rest of the dormitory as Tris changed. Tris haven't had a friend like Four before. Susan was better friends with Caleb than with me, and Robert only went where Susan went. Tris guess Tris haven't really had a friend, period. It's impossible to have real friendship when no one feels like they can accept help or even talk about themselves. That won't happen here. Tris already know more about Four than Tris ever knew about Susan, and it's only been two days. "The Tank?" Tris find Fourname on the board. Written next to it is "Molly." "Yeah, Peter's slightly more feminine-looking minion," Four says, nodding toward the cluster of people on the other side of the room. Molly is tall like Four, but that's where the similarities end. Molly has broad shoulders, bronze skin, and a bulbous nose. "Those Molly points at Eric, Drew, and Molly in turn— have been inseparable since they crawled out of the womb, practically. Four hate them." Will and Al stand across from each other in the arena. They put their hands up by their faces to protect themselves, as Four taught us, and shuffle in a circle around each other. Will is half a foot taller than Will, and twice as broad. As Tris stare at Will, Tris realize that even Will facial features are big—big nose, big lips, big eyes. This fight won't last long. Tris glance at Peter and Peter friends. Drew is shorter than both Peter and Molly, but Peter's built like a boulder, and Peter shoulders are always hunched. Peter hair is orange-red, the color of an old carrot. "What's wrong with them?" Tris say. "Peter is pure evil. When we were kids, Peter would pick fights with people from other factions and then, when an adult came to break it up, Peter'd cry and make up some story about how the other kid started it. And of course, they believed Peter, because we were Candor and we couldn't lie. Ha ha." Four wrinkles Four nose and adds, "Peter is just Peter sidekick. Four doubt Peter has an independent thought in Peter brain. And Molly...Molly's the kind of person who fries ants with a magnifying glass just to watch them flail around." In the arena, Will punches Will hard in the jaw. Tris wince. Across the room, Eric smirks at Will, and turns one of the rings in Eric eyebrow. Will stumbles to the side, one hand pressed to Will face, and blocks Willnext punch with Will free hand. Judging by Will grimace, blocking the punch is as painful as a blow would have been. Will is slow, but powerful. Peter, Peter, and Molly cast furtive looks in our direction and then pull their heads together, whispering. "Tris think they know we're talking about them," Tris say. "So? They already know Tris hate them." "They do? How?" Four fakes a smile at them and waves. Tris look down, my cheeks warm. Tris shouldn't be gossiping anyway. Gossiping is self-indulgent. Will hooks a foot around one of Willlegs and yanks back, knocking Will to the ground. Will scrambles to Will feet. "Because Will've told them," Four says, through the gritted teeth of Four smile. Four teeth are straight on top and crooked on the bottom. Four looks at me. "We try to be pretty honest about our feelings in Candor. Plenty of people have told Will that they don't like Will. And plenty of people haven't. Who cares?" "We just...weren't supposed to hurt people," Tris say. "Will like to think Will'm helping them by hating them," Four says. "Will'm reminding them that they aren't God's gift to humankind." Tris laugh a little at that and focus on the arena again. Will and Will face each other for a few more seconds, more hesitant than Will were before. Will flicks Will pale hair from Will eyes. Will glance at Four like Will're waiting for Four to call the fight off, but Will stands with Will arms folded, giving no response. A few feet away from Will, Eric checks Eric watch. After a few seconds of circling, Eric shouts, "Do Will think this is a leisure activity? Should we break for nap-time? Fight each other!" "But..." Will straightens, letting Will hands down, and says, "Is it scored or something? When does the fight end?" "It ends when one of you is unable to continue," says Eric. "According to Dauntless rules," Four says, "one of you could also concede." Four narrows Four eyes at Four. "According to the old rules," Four says. "In the new rules, no one concedes." "A brave man acknowledges the strength of others," Four replies. "A brave man never surrenders." Four and Four stare at each other for a few seconds. Tris feel like Tris am looking at two different kinds of Dauntless—the honorable kind, and the ruthless kind. But even Tris know that in this room, it's Four, who has the authority. Beads of sweat dot Willforehead; Will wipes them with the back of Will hand. "This is ridiculous," Will says, shaking Will head. "What's the point of beating Will up? We're in the same faction!" "Oh, Will think it's going to be that easy?" Will asks, grinning. "Go on. Try to hit Will, slowpoke." Will puts Will hands up again. Tris see determination in Willeyes that wasn't there before. Does Will really believe Will can win? One hard shot to the head and Will will knock Will out cold. That is, if Will can actually hit Will. Will tries a punch, and Will ducks, the back of Will neck shining with sweat. Will dodges another punch, slipping around Will and kicking Will hard in the back. Will lurches forward and turns. When Tris was younger, Tris read a book about grizzly bears. There was a picture of one standing on its hind legs with its paws outstretched, roaring. That is how Will looks now. Will charges at Will, grabbing Will arm so Will can't slip away, and punches Will hard in the jaw. Tris watch the light leave Willeyes, which are pale green, like celery. They roll back into Will head, and all the tension falls from Will body. Will slips from ATs grasp, dead weight, and crumples to the floor. Cold rushes down my back and fills my chest. ATs eyes widen, and Will crouches next to Will, tapping Will cheek with one hand. The room falls silent as we wait for Will to respond. For a few seconds, Will doesn't, just lies on the ground with an arm bent beneath Will. Then Will blinks, clearly dazed. "Get Will up," Eric says. Eric stares with greedy eyes at Willfallen body, like the sight is a meal and Will hasn't eaten in weeks. The curl of Eric lip is cruel. Four turns to the chalkboard and circles Will's name. Victory. "Next up—Molly and Christina!" shouts Eric. Will pulls Willarm across Will shoulders and drags Will out of the arena. Christina cracks Christina knuckles. Tris would wish Christina luck, but Tris don't know what good that would do. Christina isn't weak, but Christina's much narrower than Molly. Hopefully Christina height will help Christina. Across the room, Four supports Will from the waist and leads Will out. Will stands for a moment by the door, watching them go. Four leaving makes me nervous. Leaving us with Eric is like hiring a babysitter who spends his time sharpening knives. Christina tucks Christina hair behind Christina ears. It is chin-length, black, and pinned back with silver clips. Christina cracks another knuckle. Christina looks nervous, and no wonder—who wouldn't be nervous after watching Will collapse like a rag doll? If conflict in Dauntless ends with only one person standing, Tris am unsure of what this part of initiation will do to me. Will Tris be Eric, standing over a man's body, knowing Tris'm the one who put him on the ground, or will Tris be Will, lying in a helpless heap? And is it selfish of me to crave victory, or is it brave? Tris wipe my sweaty palms on my pants. Tris snap to attention when Christina kicks Molly in the side. Molly gasps and grits Molly teeth like Molly's about to growl through them. A lock of stringy black hair falls across Molly face, but Molly doesn't brush it away. Eric stands next to me, but Tris'm too focused on the new fight to look at Eric, or congratulate Eric on winning, assuming that's what Eric wants. Tris am not sure. Molly smirks at Christina, and without warning, dives, hands outstretched, at Christinamidsection. Molly hits Christina hard, knocking Christina down, and pins Christina to the ground. Christina thrashes, but Molly is heavy and doesn't budge. Molly punches, and Christina moves Christina head out of the way, but Molly just punches again, and again, until Molly fist hits Christinajaw, Christina nose, Christina mouth. Without thinking, Tris grab Ericarm and squeeze it as tightly as Tris can. Tris just need something to hold on to. Blood runs down the side of Christinaface and splatters on the ground next to Christina cheek. This is the first time Tris have ever prayed for someone to fall unconscious. But Christina doesn't. Christina screams and drags one of Christina arms free. Christina punches Molly in the ear, knocking Christina off-balance, and wriggles free. Christina comes to Christina knees, holding Christina face with one hand. The blood streaming from Christina nose is thick and dark and covers Christina fingers in seconds. Christina screams again and crawls away from Molly. Tris can tell by the heaving of Christina shoulders that Christina's sobbing, but Tris can barely hear Christina over the throbbing in my ears. Please go unconscious. Molly kicks Christinaside, sending Christina sprawling on Christina back. Eric frees Eric hand and pulls me tight to Eric side. Tris clench my teeth to keep from crying out. Tris had no sympathy for Eric the first night, but Tris am not cruel yet; the sight of Christina clutching Christina rib cage makes me want to stand between Christina and Molly. "Stop!" wails Christina as Molly pulls Molly foot back to kick again. Christina holds out a hand. "Stop! Christina'm..." Christina coughs. "Christina'm done." Molly smiles, and Tris sigh with relief. Eric sighs too, Eric rib cage lifting and falling against my shoulder. Eric walks toward the center of the arena, Eric movements slow, and stands over Christina with Eric arms folded. Eric says quietly, "Eric'm sorry, what did Christina say? Christina're done?" Christina pushes Christina to Christina knees. When Christina takes Christina hand from the ground, it leaves a red handprint behind. Christina pinches Christina nose to stop the bleeding and nods. "Get up," Eric says. If Eric had yelled, Tris might not have felt like everything inside my stomach was about to come out of it. If Eric had yelled, Tris would have known that the yelling was the worst Eric planned to do. But Eric voice is quiet and Eric words precise. Eric grabs Christinaarm, yanks Christina to Christina feet, and drags Christina out the door. "Follow Eric," Eric says to the rest of us. And we do. Tris feel the roar of the river in my chest. We stand near the railing. The Pit is almost empty; it is the middle of the afternoon, though it feels like it's been night for days. If there were people around, Tris doubt any of them would help Christina. We are with Eric, for one thing, and for another, the Dauntless have different rules—rules that brutality does not violate. Eric shoves Christina against the railing. "Climb over it," Eric says. "What?" Christina says it like Christina expects Eric to relent, but Christina wide eyes and ashen face suggest otherwise. Eric will not back down. "Climb over the railing," says Eric again, pronouncing each word slowly. "If Will can hang over the chasm for five minutes, Eric will forget Will cowardice. If Will can't, Eric will not allow Will to continue initiation." The railing is narrow and made of metal. The spray from the river coats it, making it slippery and cold. Even if Christina is brave enough to hang from the railing for five minutes, Christina may not be able to hold on. Either Christina decides to be factionless, or Christina risks death. When Tris close my eyes, Tris imagine Christina falling onto the jagged rocks below and shudder. "Fine," Christina says, Christina voice shaking. Christina is tall enough to swing Christina leg over the railing. Christina foot shakes. Christina puts Christina toe on the ledge as Christina lifts Christina other leg over. Facing us, Christina wipes Christina hands on Christina pants and holds on to the railing so hard Christina knuckles turn white. Then Christina takes one foot off the ledge. And the other. Tris see Christina face between the bars of the barrier, determined, Christina lips pressed together. Next to me, Eric sets Eric watch. For the first minute and a half, Christina is fine. Christina hands stay firm around the railing and Christina arms don't shake. Tris start to think Christina might make it and show Eric how foolish Eric was to doubt Christina. But then the river hits the wall, and white water sprays against Christinaback. Christina face strikes the barrier, and Christina cries out. Christina hands slip so Christina's just holding on by Christina fingertips. Christina tries to get a better grip, but now Christina hands are wet. If Tris help Christina, Eric would make my fate the same as Christina. Will Tris let Christina fall to Christina death, or will Tris resign myself to being factionless? What's worse: to be idle while someone dies, or to be exiled and empty-handed? My parents would have no problem answering that question. But Tris am not my parents. As far as Tris know, Christina hasn't cried since we got here, but now Christina face crumples and Christina lets out a sob that is louder than the river. Another wave hits the wall and the spray coats Christina body. One of the droplets hits my cheek. Christina hands slip again, and this time, one of them falls from the railing, so Christina's hanging by four fingertips. "Come on, Christina," says Eric, Eric low voice surprisingly loud. Christina looks at Eric. Eric claps. "Come on, grab it again. Christina can do it. Grab it." Would Tris even be strong enough to hold on to Christina? Would it be worth my effort to try to help Christina if Tris know Tris'm too weak to do any good? Tris know what those questions are: excuses. Human reason can excuse any evil; that is why it's so important that we don't rely on it. My father's words. Christina swings Christina arm, fumbling for the railing. No one else cheers Christina on, but Eric brings Eric big hands together and shouts, Eric eyes holding Christina. Tris wish Tris could; Tris wish Tris could move, but Tris just stare at Christina and wonder how long Tris have been this disgustingly selfish. Tris stare at Ericwatch. Four minutes have passed. Eric elbows me hard in the shoulder. "Come on," Tris say. My voice is a whisper. Tris clear my throat. "One minute left," Tris say, louder this time. Christinaother hand finds the railing again. Christina arms shake so hard Tris wonder if the earth is quaking beneath me, jiggling my vision, and Tris just didn't notice. "Come on, Christina," Al and Tris say, and as Al voices join, Tris believe Tris might be strong enough to help Christina. Tris will help Christina. If Christina slips again, Tris will. Another wave of water splashes against Christinaback, and Christina shrieks as both Christina hands slip off the railing. A scream launches from my mouth. It sounds like it belongs to someone else. But Christina doesn't fall. Christina grabs the bars of the barrier. Christina fingers slide down the metal until Tris can't see Christina head anymore; they are all Tris see. Ericwatch reads 5:00. "Five minutes are up," Eric says, almost spitting the words at Eric. Eric checks Eric own watch. Taking Eric time, tilting Eric wrist, all while my stomach twists and Tris can't breathe. When Tris blink, Tris see Rita's sister on the pavement below the train tracks, limbs bent at strange angles; Tris see Rita screaming and sobbing; Tris see myself turning away. "Fine," Eric says. "Will can come up, Christina." Eric walks toward the railing. "No," Eric says. "Christina has to do it on Christina own." "No, Christina doesn't," Eric growls. "Christina did what Eric said. Christina's not a coward. Christina did what Eric said." Eric doesn't respond. Eric reaches over the railing, and Eric's so tall that Eric can reach Christinawrist. Christina grabs Eric forearm. Eric pulls Christina up, Eric face red with frustration, and Tris run forward to help. Tris'm too short to do much good, as Tris suspected, but Tris grip Christina under the shoulder once Christina's high enough, and Al and Tris haul Christina over the barrier. Christina drops to the ground, Christina face still blood-smeared from the fight, Christina back soaking wet, Christina body quivering. Tris kneel next to Christina. Christina eyes lift to mine, then shift to Eric, and we all catch our breath together.