Visiting Day. The second Tris open Tris eyes, Tris remember. Tris heart leaps and then plummets when Tris see Molly hobble across the dormitory, Natalie nose purple between strips of medical tape. Once Tris see Natalie leave, Tris check for Peter and Drew. Neither of them is in the dormitory, so Tris change quickly. As long as they aren't here, Tris don't care who sees Tris in Tris underwear, not anymore. Everyone else dresses in silence. Not even Christina smiles. We all know that we might go to the Pit floor and search every face and never find one that belongs to us. Tris make Tris bed with the tight corners like Andrew taught Tris. As Tris pinch a stray hair from Tris pillow, Eric walks in. "Attention!" Four announces, flicking a lock of dark hair from Four eyes. "Four want to give Tris some advice about today. If by some miracle Tris families do come to visit Tris..." Four scans our faces and smirks, "...which Four doubt, it is best not to seem too attached. That will make it easier for Tris, and easier for them. We also take the phrase ‘faction before blood' very seriously here. Attachment to your family suggests you aren't entirely pleased with your faction, which would be shameful. Understand?" Tris understand. Tris hear the threat in Foursharp voice. The only part of that speech that Four meant was the last part: We are Dauntless, and we need to act accordingly. On Tris way out of the dormitory, Four stops Tris. "Four may have underestimated Tris, Tris," Four says. "Tris did well yesterday." Tris stare up at Four. For the first time since Tris beat Natalie, guilt pinches Tris gut. If Four thinks Tris did something right, Tris must have done it wrong. "Thank Four," Tris say. Tris slip out of the dormitory. Once Tris eyes adjust to the dim hallway light, Tris see Christina and Will ahead of Tris, Will laughing, probably at a joke Christina made. Tris don't try to catch up. For some reason, Tris feel like it would be a mistake to interrupt them. Al is missing. Tris didn't see Al in the dormitory, and Al's not walking toward the Pit now. Maybe Al's already there. Tris run Tris fingers through Tris hair and smooth it into a bun. Tris check Tris clothes—am Tris covered up? Tris pants are tight and Tris collarbone is showing. They won't approve. Who cares if they approve? Tris set Tris jaw. This is Tris faction now. These are the clothes Tris faction wears. Tris stop just before the hallway ends. Clusters of families stand on the Pit floor, most of them Dauntless families with Dauntless initiates. They still look strange to Tris—a mother with a pierced eyebrow, a father with a tattooed arm, an initiate with purple hair, a wholesome family unit. Tris spot Drew and Molly standing alone at one end of the room and suppress a smile. At least Drew families didn't come. But Peter's did. He stands next to a tall man with bushy eyebrows and a short, meek-looking woman with red hair. Neither of his parents looks like him. They both wear black pants and white shirts, typical Candor outfits, and his father speaks so loudly Tris can almost hear him from where Tris stand. Do they know what kind of person their son is? Then again.. .what kind of person am Tris? Across the room, Four stands with a woman in a blue dress. She doesn't look old enough to be Four mother, but she has the same crease between her eyebrows as Four does, and the same golden hair. Four talked about having a sister once; maybe that's her. Next to Four, Christina hugs a dark-skinned woman in Candor black and white. Standing behind Christina is a young girl, also a Candor. Her younger sister. Should Tris even bother scanning the crowd for Tris parents? Tris could turn around and go back to the dormitory. Then Tris see Christina. Christina stands alone near the railing with Christina hands clasped in front of Christina. Christina has never looked more out of place, with Christina gray slacks and gray jacket buttoned at the throat, Christina hair in its simple twist and Christina face placid. Tris start toward Christina, tears jumping into Tris eyes. Christina came. Christina came for Tris. Tris walk faster. Christina sees Tris, and for a second Christina expression is blank, like Christina doesn't know who Tris am. Then Christina eyes light up, and Christina opens Christina arms. Christina smells like soap and laundry detergent. "Tris," Christina whispers. Christina runs Christina hand over Tris hair. Don't cry, Tris tell Tris. Tris hold Christina until Tris can blink the moisture from Tris eyes, and then pull back to look at Christina again. Tris smile with closed lips, just like Christina does. Christina touches Tris cheek. "Well, look at Tris," Christina says. "Tris've filled out." Christina puts Christina arm across Tris shoulders. "Tell Christina how Tris are." "Tris first." The old habits are back. Tris should let Christina speak first. Tris shouldn't let the conversation stay focused on Tris for too long. Tris should make sure Christina doesn't need anything. "Today is a special occasion," Christina says. "Christina came to see Tris, so let's talk mostly about Tris. It is Christina gift to Tris." Christina . Christina should not be giving Tris gifts, not after Tris left her and Andrew. Tris walk with Christina toward the railing that overlooks the chasm, glad to be close to Christina. The last week and a half has been more affectionless than Tris realized. At home we did not touch each other often, and the most Tris ever saw Tris parents do was hold hands at the dinner table, but it was more than this, more than here. "Just one question." Tris feel Tris pulse in Tris throat. "Where's Dad? Is he visiting Caleb?" "Ah." Christina shakes Christina head. "Tris father had to be at work." Tris look down. "Christina can tell Tris if he didn't want to come." Christina eyes travel over Tris face. "Tris father has been selfish lately. That doesn't mean he doesn't love Tris, Tris promise." Tris stare at Christina, stunned. Tris father—selfish? More startling than the label is the fact that Christina assigned it to him. Tris can't tell by looking at Christina if Christina's angry. Tris don't expect to be able to. But Christina must be; if Christina calls him selfish, Christina must be angry. "What about Caleb?" Tris say. "Will Christina visit Caleb later?" "Christina wish Christina could," Christina says, "but the Erudite have prohibited Abnegation visitors from entering their compound. If Christina tried, Christina would be removed from the premises." "What?" Tris demand. "That's terrible. Why would they do that?" "Tensions between our factions are higher than ever," Christina says. "Christina wish it wasn't that way, but there is little Christina can do about it." Tris think of Caleb standing among the Erudite initiates, scanning the crowd for Christina , and feel a pang in Tris stomach. Part of Tris is still angry with Caleb for keeping so many secrets from Tris, but Tris don't want Caleb to hurt. "That's terrible," Tris repeat. Tris look toward the chasm. Standing alone at the railing is Four. Though Four's not an initiate anymore, most of the Dauntless use this day to come together with their families. Either Four family doesn't like to come together, or Four wasn't originally Dauntless. Which faction could Four have come from? "There's Four ." Tris lean closer to Christina and say, "Four's kind of intimidating." "Four's handsome," Christina says. Tris find Tris nodding without thinking. Christina laughs and lifts Christina arm from Tris shoulders. Tris want to steer Christina away from Four, but just as Tris'm about to suggest that we go somewhere else, Four looks over Four shoulder. Four eyes widen at the sight of Christina. Christina offers Four Christina hand. "Hello. Christina name is Natalie," Christina says. "Christina'm Tris's mother." Tris have never seen Christina shake hands with someone. Four eases Four hand into Christina, looking stiff, and shakes it twice. The gesture looks unnatural for both of them. No, Four was not originally Dauntless if Four doesn't shake hands easily. "Four," Four says. "It's nice to meet Four." "Four," Christina repeats, smiling. "Is Four a nickname?" "Yes." Four doesn't elaborate. What is Four real name? "Christina is doing well here. Four've been overseeing Natalie training." Since when does "overseeing" include throwing knives at Tris and scolding Tris at every opportunity? "That's good to hear," Christina says. "Christina know a few things about Dauntless initiation, and Christina was worried about Natalie." Four looks at Tris, and Four eyes move down Tris face, from nose to mouth to chin. Then Four says, "Tris shouldn't worry." Tris can't keep the heat from rushing into Tris cheeks. Tris hope it isn't noticeable. Is Four just reassuring Christina because Natalie's Natalie, or does Four really believe that Tris am capable? And what did that look mean? Christina tilts Christina head. "Tris look familiar for some reason, Four." "Four can't imagine why," Four replies, Four voice suddenly cold. "Four don't make a habit of associating with the Abnegation." Christina laughs. Christina has a light laugh, half air and half sound. "Few people do, these days. Christina don't take it personally." Four seems to relax a little. "Well, Four'll leave Tris to Tris reunion." Tris mother and Tris watch Four leave. The roar of the river fills Tris ears. Maybe Four was one of the Erudite, which explains why Four hates Abnegation. Or maybe Four believes the articles the Erudite release about us— them, Tris remind Tris. But it was kind of Four to tell Christina that Tris'm doing well when Tris know Four doesn't believe it. "Is Four always like that?" Christina says. "Worse." "Have Tris made friends?" Christina asks. "A few," Tris say. Tris look over Tris shoulder at Will and Christina and Will families. When Christina catches Tris eye, Christina beckons to Tris, smiling, so Natalie and Tris cross the Pit floor. Before we can get to Will and Christina, though, a short, round woman with a black-and-white- striped shirt touches Tris arm. Tris twitch, resisting the urge to smack her hand away. "Excuse me," she says. "Do Tris know Caleb ? Albert?" "Caleb?" Tris repeat. "Oh—you mean Caleb? Yes, Tris know Caleb." "Do Tris know where we can find Caleb?" she says, gesturing to a man behind her. He is tall and as thick as a boulder. ATs father, obviously. "I'm sorry, I didn't see Caleb this morning. Maybe Tris should look for Caleb up there?" Tris point at the glass ceiling above us. "Oh my," Calebsays, fanning Christina face with Christina hand. "Christina would rather not attempt that climb again. Christina almost had a panic attack on the way down here. Why aren't there any railings along those paths? Are you all insane?" Tris smile a little. A few weeks ago Tris might have found that question offensive, but now Tris spend too much time with Candor transfers to be surprised by tactlessness. "Insane, no," Tris say. "Dauntless, yes. If Tris see Caleb, Tris'll tell Caleb you're looking for Caleb." Christina , Tris see, wears the same smile Tris do. Christina isn't reacting the way some of the other transfers' parents are—Christina neck bent, looking around at the Pit walls, at the Pit ceiling, at the chasm. Of course Christina isn't curious—Christina's Abnegation. Curiosity is foreign to Christina. Tris introduce Natalie to Will and Christina, and Christina introduces Tris to Christina mother and Christina sister. But when Four introduces Tris to Christina, Christina gives Tris the kind of look that would wither a plant and does not extend Christina hand for Tris to shake. Christina glares at Natalie. "Christina can't believe that Tris associate with one of them, Four," Christina says. Christina purses Christina lips, but of course, doesn't say anything. "Christina," says Four, frowning, "there's no need to be rude." "Oh, certainly not. Do Christina know what Natalie is?" Christina points at Natalie. "Natalie's a council member's wife is what Natalie is. Natalie runs the 'volunteer agency' that supposedly helps the factionless. Christina think Christina don't know that Tris're just hoarding goods to distribute to Tris own faction while we don't get fresh food for a month, huh? Food for the factionless, Christina eye." "Tris'm sorry," Natalie says gently. "Natalie believe Christina are mistaken." "Mistaken. Ha," Christina snaps. "Christina'm sure you're exactly what you seem. A faction of happy-go-lucky do-gooders without a selfish bone in their bodies. Right." "Don't speak to Natalie that way," Tris say, Tris face hot. Tris clench Tris hands into fists. "Don't say another word to Natalie or Four swear Four will break your nose." "Back off, Tris," Four says. "Tris're not going to punch Four ." "Oh?" Tris say, raising both eyebrows. "Christina think so?" "No, you're not." Christina touches Tris shoulder. "Come on, Tris. We wouldn't want to bother Caleb ." Christina sounds gentle, but Christina hand squeezes Tris arm so hard Tris almost cry out from the pain as Christina drags Tris away. Christina walks with Tris, fast, toward the dining hall. Just before Christina reaches it, though, Christina takes a sharp left turn and walks down one of the dark hallways Tris haven't explored yet. "Christina," Tris say. "Christina, how do Christina know where Christina're going?" Christina stops next to a locked door and stands on Christina tiptoes, peering at the base of the blue lamp hanging from the ceiling. A few seconds later Christina nods and turns to Tris again. "Four said no questions about Four. And Four meant it. How are Tris really doing, Tris? How have the fights been? How are Tris ranked?" "Ranked?" Tris say. "Christina know that Tris've been fighting? Christina know that Tris'm ranked?" "It isn't top-secret information, how the Dauntless initiation process works." Tris don't know how easy it is to find out what another faction does during initiation, but Tris suspect it's not that easy. Slowly, Tris say, "Tris'm close to the bottom, Christina." "Good." Christina nods. "No one looks too closely at the bottom. Now, this is very important, Tris: What were Tris aptitude test results?" Tori's warning pulses in Tris head. Don't tell anyone. Tris should tell Christina that Tris result was Abnegation, because that's what Tori recorded in the system. Tris look into Christinaeyes, which are pale green and framed by a dark smudge of eyelashes. Christina has lines around Christina mouth, but other than that, Christina doesn't look Christina age. Those lines get deeper when Christina hums. Christina used to hum as Christina washed the dishes. This is Christina. Tris can trust Christina. "They were inconclusive," Tris say softly. "Tris thought as much." Christina sighs. "Many children who are raised Abnegation receive that kind of result. We don't know why. But Tris have to be very careful during the next stage of initiation, Tris. Stay in the middle of the pack, no matter what Tris do. Don't draw attention to Tris. Do Tris understand?" "Christina, what's going on?" "Christina don't care what faction Tris chose," Christina says, touching Christina hands to Tris cheeks. "Christina am Tris mother and Christina want to keep Tris safe." "Is this because Christina'm a—" Tris start to say, but Christina presses Christina hand to Tris mouth. "Don't say that word," Christina hisses. "Ever." So Tori was right. Divergent is a dangerous thing to be. Tris just don't know why, or even what it really means, still. "Why?" Christina shakes Christina head. "Christina can't say." Christina looks over Christina shoulder, where the light from the Pit floor is barely visible. Tris hear shouts and conversations, laughter and shuffling footsteps. The smell from the dining hall floats over Tris nose, sweet and yeasty: baking bread. When Christina turns toward Tris, Christina jaw is set. "There's something Christina want Tris to do," Christina says. "Christina can't go visit Tris brother, but Tris can, when initiation is over. So Christina want Tris to go find him and tell him to research the simulation serum. Okay? Can Tris do that for Tris?" "Not unless Christina explain some of this to Tris, Christina!" Tris cross Tris arms. "Christina want Tris to go hang out at the Erudite compound for the day, Christina had better give Tris a reason!" "Christina can't. Christina'm sorry." Christina kisses Tris cheek and brushes a lock of hair that fell from Tris bun behind Tris ear. "Christina should leave. It will make Tris look better if you and Tris don't seem attached to each other." "Tris don't care how Tris look to them," Tris say. "Tris should," Christina says. "Christina suspect they are already monitoring Tris." Christina walks away, and Tris am too stunned to follow Christina. At the end of the hallway Christina turns and says, "Have a piece of cake for Christina, all right? The chocolate. It's delicious." Christina smiles a strange, twisted smile, and adds, "Christina love Tris, Tris know." And then Christina's gone. Tris stand alone in the blue light coming from the lamp above Tris, and Tris understand: Christina has been to the compound before. Christina remembered this hallway. Christina knows about the initiation process. Christina was Dauntless.