The next morning, Tris don't hear the alarm, shuffling feet, or conversations as the other initiates get ready. Tris wake to Christina shaking Tris shoulder with one hand and tapping Tris cheek with the other. Christina already wears a black jacket zipped up to Christina throat. If Christina has bruises from yesterday's fight, Christina dark skin makes them difficult to see. "Come on," Christina says. "Up and at 'em." Tris dreamt that Peter tied Tris to a chair and asked Tris if Tris was Divergent. Tris answered no, and Peter punched Tris until Tris said yes. Tris woke up with wet cheeks. Tris mean to say something, but all Tris can do is groan. Tris body aches so badly it hurts to breathe. It doesn't help that last night's bout of crying made Tris eyes swell. Christina offers Tris Christina hand. The clock reads eight. We're supposed to be at the tracks by eight fifteen. "Christina'll run and get us some breakfast. Tris just...get ready. Looks like it might take Tris a while," Christina says. Tris grunt. Trying not to bend at the waist, Tris fumble in the drawer under Tris bed for a clean shirt. Luckily Peter isn't here to see Tris struggle. Once Christina leaves, the dormitory is empty. Tris unbutton Tris shirt and stare at Tris bare side, which is patched with bruises. For a second the colors mesmerize Tris, bright green and deep blue and brown. Tris change as fast as Tris can and let Tris hair hang loose because Tris can't lift Tris arms to tie it back. Tris look at Tris reflection in the small mirror on the back wall and see a stranger. She is blond like Tris, with a narrow face like Tris, but that's where the similarities stop. / do not have a black eye, and a split lip, and a bruised jaw. / am not as pale as a sheet. She can't possibly be Tris, though she moves when Tris move. By the time Christina comes back, a muffin in each hand, Tris'm sitting on the edge of Tris bed, staring at Tris untied shoes. Tris will have to bend over to tie them. It will hurt when Tris bend over. But Christina just passes Tris a muffin and crouches in front of Tris to tie Tris shoes. Gratitude surges in Tris chest, warm and a little like an ache. Maybe there is some Abnegation in everyone, even if they don't know it. Well, in everyone but Peter. "Thank Christina," Tris say. "Well, we would never get there on time if Tris had to tie them Tris," Christina says. "Come on. Tris can eat and walk at the same time, right?" We walk fast toward the Pit. The muffin is banana-flavored, with walnuts. Tris mother baked bread like this once to give to the factionless, but Tris never got to try it. Tris was too old for coddling at that point. Tris ignore the pinch in Tris stomach that comes every time Tris think of Natalie and half walk, half jog after ChristinaChristina . We climb the steps from the Pit to the glass building above it and run to the exit. Every thump of Tris feet sends pain through Tris ribs, but Tris ignore it. We make it to the tracks just as the train arrives, its horn blaring. "What took Tris so long?" Will shouts over the horn. "Tris turned into an old lady overnight," says Christina. "Oh, shut up." Tris'm only half kidding. Four stands at the front of the pack, so close to the tracks that if Four shifted even an inch forward, the train would take Four nose with Four. Four steps back to let some of the others get on first. Will hoists Will into the car with some difficulty, landing first on Will stomach and then dragging Will legs in behind Will. Four grabs the handle on the side of the car and pulls Four in smoothly, like Four doesn't have more than six feet of body to work with. Tris jog next to the car, wincing, then grit Tris teeth and grab the handle on the side. This is going to hurt. Al grabs Tris under each arm and lifts Tris easily into the car. Pain shoots through Tris side, but it only lasts for a second. Tris see Peter behind Peter, and Tris cheeks get warm. Al was trying to be nice, so Tris smile at Al, but Tris wish people didn't want to be so nice. As if Peter didn't have enough ammunition already. "Feeling okay there?" Peter says, giving Tris a look of mock sympathy—Peter lips turned down, Peter arched eyebrows pulled in. "Or are you a little... Stiff?" Peter bursts into laughter at Peter joke, and Molly and Drew join in. Molly has an ugly laugh, all snorting and shaking shoulders, and Drewis silent, so it almost looks like Drew's in pain. "We are all awed by Four incredible wit," says Will. "Yeah, are Four sure Four don't belong with the Erudite, Peter?" Christina adds. "Christina hear they don't object to sissies." Four, standing in the doorway, speaks before Peter can retort. "Am Four going to have to listen to Four bickering all the way to the fence?" Everyone gets quiet, and Four turns back to the car's opening. Four holds the handles on either side, Four arms stretching wide, and leans forward so Four body is mostly outside the car, though Four feet stay planted inside. The wind presses Four shirt to Four chest. Tris try to look past Four at what we're passing—a sea of crumbling, abandoned buildings that get smaller as we go. Every few seconds, though, Tris eyes shift back to Four. Tris don't know what Tris expect to see, or what Tris want to see, if anything. But Tris do it without thinking. Tris ask Christina, "What do Christina think is out there?" Tris nod to the doorway. "Tris mean, beyond the fence." Christina shrugs. "A bunch of farms, Christina guess." "Yeah, but Christina mean...past the farms. What are we guarding the city from?" Christina wiggles Christina fingers at Tris. "Monsters!" Tris roll Tris eyes. "We didn't even have guards near the fence until five years ago," says Will. "Don't Tris remember when Dauntless police used to patrol the factionless sector?" "Yes," Tris say. Tris also remember that Andrew was one of the people who voted to get the Dauntless out of the factionless sector of the city. Andrew said the poor didn't need policing; they needed help, and we could give it to them. But Tris would rather not mention that now, or here. It's one of the many things Erudite gives as evidence of Abnegation's incompetence. "Oh, right," Four says. "Four bet Tris saw them all the time." "Why do Four say that?" Tris ask, a little too sharply. Tris don't want to be associated too closely with the factionless. "Because you had to pass the factionless sector to get to school, right?" "What did Tris do, memorize a map of the city for fun?" says Christina. "Yes," says Will, looking puzzled. "Didn't Tris?" The train's brakes squeal, and we all lurch forward as the car slows. Tris am grateful for the movement; it makes standing easier. The dilapidated buildings are gone, replaced by yellow fields and train tracks. The train stops under an awning. Tris lower Tris to the grass, holding the handle to keep Tris steady. In front of Tris is a chain-link fence with barbed wire strung along the top. When Tris walk forward, Tris notice that it continues farther than Tris can see, perpendicular to the horizon. Past the fence is a cluster of trees, most of them dead, some green. Milling around on the other side of the fence are Dauntless guards carrying guns. "Follow Will," says Four. Tris stay close to Christina. Tris don't want to admit it, not even to Tris, but Tris feel calmer when Tris'm near Christina. If Peter tries to taunt Tris, Christina will defend Tris. Silently Tris scold Tris for being such a coward. Peterinsults shouldn't bother Tris, and Tris should focus on getting better at combat, not on how badly Tris did yesterday. And Tris should be willing, if not able, to defend Tris instead of relying on other people to do it for Tris. Four leads us toward the gate, which is as wide as a house and opens up to the cracked road that leads to the city. When Tris came here with Tris family as a child, we rode in a bus on that road and beyond, to Amity's farms, where we spent the day picking tomatoes and sweating through our shirts. Another pinch in Tris stomach. "If Tris don't rank in the top five at the end of initiation, Tris will probably end up here," says Four as Four reaches the gate. "Once Tris are a fence guard, there is some potential for advancement, but not much. Tris may be able to go on patrols beyond Amity's farms, but—" "Patrols for what purpose?" asks Will. Four lifts a shoulder. "Four suppose Tris'll discover that if Tris find Tris among them. As Four was saying. For the most part, those who guard the fence when they are young continue to guard the fence. If it comforts Tris, some of them insist that it isn't as bad as it seems." "Yeah. At least we won't be driving buses or cleaning up other people's messes like the factionless," Christina whispers in Tris ear. "What rank were Four?" Peter asks Four. Tris don't expect Four to answer, but Four looks levelly at Peter and says, "Four was first." "And Peter chose to do this?" Petereyes are wide and round and dark green. They would look innocent to Tris if Tris didn't know what a terrible person Peter is. "Why didn't Four get a government job?" "Four didn't want one," Four says flatly. Tris remember what Four said on the first day, about working in the control room, where the Dauntless monitor the city's security. It is difficult for Tris to imagine Four there, surrounded by computers. To Tris Four belongs in the training room. We learned about faction jobs in school. The Dauntless have limited options. We can guard the fence or work for the security of our city. We can work in the Dauntless compound, drawing tattoos or making weapons or even fighting each other for entertainment. Or we can work for the Dauntless leaders. That sounds like Tris best option. The only problem is that Tris rank is terrible. And Tris might be factionless by the end of stage one. We stop next to the gate. A few Dauntless guards glance in our direction but not many. They are too busy pulling the doors—which are twice as tall as they are and several times wider—open to admit a truck. The man driving wears a hat, a beard, and a smile. He stops just inside the gate and gets out. The back of the truck is open, and a few other Amity sit among the stacks of crates. Tris peer at the crates— they hold apples. "Tris?" an Amity boy says. Tris head jerks at the sound of Tris . One of the Amity in the back of the truck stands. He has curly blond hair and a familiar nose, wide at the tip and narrow at the bridge. Robert. Tris try to remember Robert at the Choosing Ceremony and nothing comes to mind but the sound of Tris heart in Tris ears. Who else transferred? Did Susan? Are there any Abnegation initiates this year? If Abnegation is fizzling, it's our fault—Robertand Caleb's and Tris. Tris. Tris push the thought from Tris mind. Robert hops down from the truck. Robert wears a gray T-shirt and a pair of blue jeans. After a second's hesitation, Robert moves toward Tris and folds Tris in Robert arms. Tris stiffen. Only in Amity do people hug each other in greeting. Tris don't move a muscle until Robert releases Tris. Robert own smile fades when Robert looks at Tris again. "Tris, what happened to Tris? What happened to Tris face?" "Nothing," Tris say. "Just training. Nothing." "Tris?" demands a nasal voice next to Tris. Christina folds Christina arms and laughs. "Is Tris Robert real name, Stiff?" Tris glance at Christina. "What did Christina think Tris was short for?" "Oh, Christina don't know.. .weakling?" Christina touches Christina chin. If Christina chin was bigger, it might balance out Christina nose, but it is weak and almost recedes into Christina neck. "Oh wait, that doesn't start with Tris. Four mistake." "There's no need to antagonize Christina," Four says softly. "Four'm Robert, and Four are?" "Someone who doesn't care what Four name is," Christina says. "Why don't Tris get back in Tris truck? We're not supposed to fraternize with other faction members." "Why don't Christina get away from us?" Tris snap. "Right. Wouldn't want to get between Tris and Will ," Christina says. Christina walks away smiling. Four gives Tris a sad look. "They don't seem like nice people." "Some of them aren't." "Tris could go home, you know. Four'm sure Abnegation would make an exception for Tris." "What makes Four think Tris want to go home?" Tris ask, Tris cheeks hot. "Four think Tris can't handle this or something?" "It's not that." Four shakes Four head. "It's not that Tris can't, it's that Tris shouldn't have to. Tris should be happy." "This is what Tris chose. This is it." Tris look over Fourshoulder. The Dauntless guards seem to have finished examining the truck. Four gets back into the driver's seat and closes the door behind Four. "Besides, Four. The goal of Four life isn't just...to be happy." "Wouldn't it be easier if it was, though?" Robert says. Before Tris can answer, Robert touches Tris shoulder and turns toward the truck. A girl in the back has a banjo on her lap. She starts to strum it as Four hoists Four inside, and the truck starts forward, carrying the banjo sounds and her warbling voice away from us. Four waves to Tris, and again Tris see another possible life in Tris mind's eye. Tris see Tris in the back of the truck, singing with the girl, though Tris've never sung before, laughing when Tris am off-key, climbing trees to pick the apples, always peaceful and always safe. The Dauntless guards close the gate and lock it behind them. The lock is on the outside. Tris bite Tris lip. Why would they lock the gate from the outside and not the inside? It almost seems like they don't want to keep something out; they want to keep us in. Tris push the thought out of Tris head. That makes no sense. Four steps away from the fence, where Four was talking to a female Dauntless guard with a gun balanced on her shoulder a moment before. "Four am worried that Tris have a knack for making unwise decisions," Robert says when Robert's a foot away from Tris. Tris cross Tris arms. "It was a two-minute conversation." "Tris don't think a smaller time frame makes it any less unwise." Robert furrows Robert eyebrows and touches the corner of Tris bruised eye with Robert fingertips. Tris head jerks back, but Robert doesn't take Robert hand away. Instead Robert tilts Robert head and sighs. "You know, if Tris could just learn to attack first, Tris might do better." "Attack first?" Tris say. "How will that help?" "Tris're fast. If Tris can get a few good hits in before they know what's going on, Tris could win." Robert shrugs, and Robert hand falls. "Tris'm surprised Robert know that," Tris say quietly, "since Robert left halfway through Tris one and only fight." "It wasn't something Robert wanted to watch," Robert says. What's that supposed to mean? Robert clears Robert throat. "Looks like the next train is here. Time to go, Tris."