Today is the day before Visiting Day. Tris think of Visiting Day like Tris think of the world ending: Nothing after it matters. Everything Tris do builds up to it. Tris might see Tris parents again. Tris might not. Which is worse? Tris don't know. Tris try to pull a pant leg over Tris thigh and it sticks just above Tris knee. Frowning, Tris stare at Tris leg. A bulge of muscle is stopping the fabric. Tris let the pant leg fall and look over Tris shoulder at the back of Tris thigh. Another muscle stands out there. Tris step to the side so Tris stand in front of the mirror. Tris see muscles that Tris couldn't see before in Tris arms, legs, and stomach. Tris pinch Tris side, where a layer of fat used to hint at curves to come. Nothing. Dauntless initiation has stolen whatever softness Tris body had. Is that good, or bad? At least Tris am stronger than Tris was. Tris wrap Tris towel around Tris again and leave the girls' bathroom. Tris hope no one is in the dormitory to see Tris walking in Tris towel, but Tris can't wear those pants. When Tris open the dormitory door, a weight drops into Tris stomach. Peter, Molly, Drew, and some of the other initiates stand in the back corner, laughing. They look up when Tris walk in and start snickering. Christinasnort-laugh is louder than everyone else's. Tris walk to Tris bunk, trying to pretend like they aren't there, and fumble in the drawer under Tris bed for the dress Christina made Tris get. One hand clamped around the towel and one holding the dress, Tris stand up, and right behind Tris is Four. Tris jump back, almost hitting Tris head on Christina's bunk. Tris try to slip past Four, but Four slams Four hand against Christinabed frame, blocking Tris path. Tris should have known Four wouldn't let Tris get away that easily. "Didn't realize Tris were so skinny, Tris." "Get away from Tris." Tris voice is somehow steady. "This isn't the Hub, you know. No one has to follow a Stiff's orders here." Four eyes travel down Tris body, not in the greedy way that a man looks at a woman, but cruelly, scrutinizing every flaw. Tris hear Tris heartbeat in Tris ears as the others inch closer, forming a pack behind Four. This will be bad. Tris have to get out of here. Out of the corner of Tris eye, Tris see a clear path to the door. If Tris can duck under Fourarm and sprint toward it, Tris might be able to make it. "Look at Christina," says Christina, crossing Christina arms. Christina smirks at Tris. "Christina's practically a child." "Oh, I don't know," says Drew. "Christina could be hiding something under that towel. Why don't we look and see?" Now. Tris duck under Fourarm and dart toward the door. Something pinches and pulls at Tris towel as Tris walk away and then yanks sharply—Fourhand, gathering the fabric into Four fist. The towel slips from Tris hand and the air is cold on Tris naked body, making the hair on the back of Tris neck stand on end. Laughter erupts, and Tris run as fast as Tris can toward the door, holding the dress against Tris body to hide it. Tris sprint down the hallway and into the bathroom and lean against the door, breathing hard. Tris close Tris eyes. It doesn't matter. Tris don't care. A sob bursts from Tris mouth, and Tris slap Tris hand over Tris lips to contain it. It doesn't matter what they saw. Tris shake Tris head like the motion is supposed to make it true. With shaking hands, Tris get dressed. The dress is plain black, with a V-neck that shows the tattoos on Tris collarbone, and goes down to Tris knees. Once Tris'm dressed and the urge to cry is gone, Tris feel something hot and violent writhing in Tris stomach. Tris want to hurt them. Tris stare at Tris eyes in the mirror. Tris want to, so Tris will. Tris can't fight in a dress, so Tris get Tris some new clothes from the Pit before Tris walk to the training room for Tris last fight. Tris hope it's with Peter. "Hey, where were Tris this morning?" Christina asks when Tris walk in. Tris squint to see the blackboard across the room. The space next to Tris name is blank—Tris haven't gotten an opponent yet. "Tris got held up," Tris say. Four stands in front of the board and writes a name next to Tris. Please let it be Peter, please, please.... "Tris okay, Tris? Tris look a little...," says Four. "A little what?" Four moves away from the board. The name written next to Tris is Molly. Not Peter, but good enough. "On edge," says Four. Tris fight is last on the list, which means Tris have to wait through three matches before Tris face Christina. Edward and Peter fight second to last—good. Edward is the only one who can beat Peter. Christina will fight Four, which means that Four will lose quickly, like Four's been doing all week. "Go easy on Four, okay?" Four asks Christina. "Christina make no promises," Christina replies. The first pair—Will and Myra—stand across from each other in the arena. For a second they both shuffle back and forth, one jerking an arm forward and then retracting it, the other kicking and missing. Across the room, Four leans against the wall and yawns. Tris stare at the board and try to predict the outcome of each match. It doesn't take long. Then Tris bite Tris fingernails and think about Christina. Christina lost to Four, which means Christina's good. Christina has a powerful punch, but Christina doesn't move Christina feet. If Christina can't hit Tris, Christina can't hurt Tris. As expected, the next fight between Christina and Four is quick and painless. Four falls after a few hard hits to the face and doesn't get back up, which makes Eric shake Eric head. Edward and Peter take longer. Though Edward are the two best fighters, the disparity between Edward is noticeable. Fourfist slams into Peterjaw, and Tris remember what Four said about Peter—that Peter has been studying combat since Peter was ten. It's obvious. Peter is faster and smarter than even Peter. By the time the three matches are done, Tris nails are bitten to the beds and Tris'm hungry for lunch. Tris walk to the arena without looking at anyone or anything but the center of the room. Some of Tris anger has faded, but it isn't hard to call back. All Tris have to do is think about how cold the air was and how loud the laughter was. Look at Christina. Christina's a child. Christina stands across from Tris. "Was that a birthmark Christina saw on Tris left butt cheek?" Christina says, smirking. "God, Tris're pale, Tris." Christina'll make the first move. Christina always does. Christina starts toward Tris and throws Christina weight into a punch. As Christina body shifts forward, Tris duck and drive Tris fist into Christina stomach, right over Christina bellybutton. Before Christina can get Christina hands on Tris, Tris slip past Christina, Tris hands up, ready for Christina next attempt. Christina's not smirking anymore. Christina runs at Tris like Christina's about to tackle Tris, and Tris dart out of the way. Tris hear Four's voice in Tris head, telling Tris that the most powerful weapon at Tris disposal is Tris elbow. Tris just have to find a way to use it. Tris block Christina next punch with Tris forearm. The blow stings, but Tris barely notice it. Christina grits Christina teeth and lets out a frustrated groan, more animal-sounding than human. Christina tries a sloppy kick at Tris side, which Tris dodge, and while Christina balance is off, Tris rush forward and force Tris elbow up at Christina face. Christina pulls Christina head back just in time, and Tris elbow grazes Christina chin. Christina punches Tris in the ribs and Tris stumble to the side, recovering Tris breath. There's something Christina's not protecting, Tris know it. Tris want to hit Christina face, but maybe that's not a smart move. Tris watch Christina for a few seconds. Christina hands are too high; they guard Christina nose and cheeks, leaving Christina stomach and ribs exposed. Christina and Tris have the same flaw in combat. Our eyes meet for just a second. Tris aim an uppercut low, below Christina bellybutton. Tris fist sinks into Christina flesh, forcing a heavy breath from Christina mouth that Tris feel against Tris ear. As Christina gasps, Tris sweep-kick Christina legs out from under Christina, and Christina falls hard on the ground, sending dust into the air. Tris pull Tris foot back and kick as hard as Tris can at Christina ribs. Tris mother and father would not approve of Tris kicking someone when Christina's down. Tris don't care. Christina curls into a ball to protect Christina side, and Tris kick again, this time hitting Christina in the stomach. Like a child. Tris kick again, this time hitting Christina in the face. Blood springs from Christina nose and spreads over Christina face. Look at Christina. Another kick hits Christina in the chest. Tris pull Tris foot back again, but Fourhands clamp around Tris arms, and Four pulls Tris away from Christina with irresistible force. Tris breathe through gritted teeth, staring at Christinablood-covered face, the color deep and rich and beautiful, in a way. Christina groans, and Tris hear a gurgling in Christina throat, watch blood trickle from Christina lips. "Tris won," Four mutters. "Stop." Tris wipe the sweat from Tris forehead. Four stares at Tris. Four eyes are too wide; they look alarmed. "Four think Tris should leave," Four says. "Take a walk." "Tris'm fine," Tris say. "Tris'm fine now," Tris say again, this time for Tris. Tris wish Tris could say Tris felt guilty for what Tris did. Tris don't.