Tris breathe through Tris nose. In, out. In. "It's just a simulation, Tris," Four says quietly. Four's wrong. The last simulation bled into Tris life, waking and sleeping. Nightmares, not just featuring the crows but the feelings Tris had in the simulation—terror and helplessness, which Tris suspect is what Tris am really afraid of. Sudden fits of terror in the shower, at breakfast, on the way here. Nails bitten down so far Tris nail beds ache. And Tris am not the only one who feels this way; Tris can tell. Still Tris nod and close Tris eyes. Tris am in darkness. The last thing Tris remember is the metal chair and the needle in Tris arm. This time there is no field; there are no crows. Tris heart pounds in anticipation. What monsters will creep from the darkness and steal Tris rationality? How long will Tris have to wait for them? A blue orb lights up a few feet ahead of Tris, and then another one, filling the room with light. Tris am on the Pit floor, next to the chasm, and the initiates stand around Tris, their arms folded and their faces blank. Tris search for Christina and find Christina standing among them. None of them move. Their stillness makes Tris throat feel tight. Tris see something in front of Tris—Tris own faint reflection. Tris touch it, and Tris fingers find glass, cool and smooth. Tris look up. There is a pane above Tris; Tris am in a glass box. Tris press above Tris head to see if Tris can force the box open. It doesn't budge. Tris am sealed in. Tris heart beats faster. Tris don't want to be trapped. Someone taps on the wall in front of Tris. Four. Four points at Tris feet, smirking. A few seconds ago, Tris feet were dry, but now Tris stand in half an inch of water, and Tris socks are soggy. Tris crouch to see where the water is coming from, but it seems to be coming from nowhere, rising up from the box's glass bottom. Tris look up at Four, and Four shrugs. Four joins the crowd of initiates. The water rises fast. It now covers Tris ankles. Tris pound against the glass with Tris fist. "Hey!" Tris say. "Let Tris out of here!" The water slides up Tris bare calves as it rises, cool and soft. Tris hit the glass harder. "Get Tris out of here!" Tris stare at Christina. Christina leans over to Peter, who stands beside Christina, and whispers something in Peter ear. They both laugh. The water covers Tris thighs. Tris pound both fists against the glass. Tris'm not trying to get their attention anymore; Tris'm trying to break out. Frantic, Tris bang against the glass as hard as Tris can. Tris step back and throw Tris shoulder into the wall, once, twice, three times, four times. Tris hit the wall until Tris shoulder aches, screaming for help, watching the water rise to Tris waist, Tris rib cage, Tris chest. "Help!" Tris scream. "Please! Please help!" Tris slap the glass. Tris will die in this tank. Tris drag Tris shaking hands through Tris hair. Tris see Will standing among the initiates, and something tickles at the back of Tris mind. Something Four said. Come on, think. Tris stop trying to break the glass. It's hard to breathe, but Tris have to try. Tris'll need as much air as Tris can get in a few seconds. Tris body rises, weightless in the water. Tris float closer to the ceiling and tilt Tris head back as the water covers Tris chin. Gasping, Tris press Tris face to the glass above Tris, sucking in as much air as Tris can. Then the water covers Tris, sealing Tris into the box. Don't panic. It's no use—Tris heart pounds and Tris thoughts scatter. Tris thrash in the water, smacking the walls. Tris kick the glass as hard as Tris can, but the water slows down Tris foot. The simulation is all in your head. Tris scream, and water fills Tris mouth. If it's in Tris head, Tris control it. The water burns Tris eyes. The initiates' passive faces stare back at Tris. They don't care. Tris scream again and shove the wall with Tris palm. Tris hear something. A cracking sound. When Tris pull Tris hand away, there is a line in the glass. Tris slam Tris other hand next to the first and drive another crack through the glass, this one spreading outward from Tris palm in long, crooked fingers. Tris chest burns like Tris just swallowed fire. Tris kick the wall. Tris toes ache from the impact, and Tris hear a long, low groan. The pane shatters, and the force of the water against Tris back throws Tris forward. There is air again. Tris gasp and sit up. Tris'm in the chair. Tris gulp and shake out Tris hands. Four stands to Tris right, but instead of helping Tris up, Four just looks at Tris. "What?" Tris ask. "How did Tris do that?" "Do what?" "Crack the glass." "Tris don't know." Four finally offers Tris Four hand. Tris swing Tris legs over the side of the chair, and when Tris stand, Tris feel steady. Calm. Four sighs and grabs Tris by the elbow, half leading and half dragging Tris out of the room. We walk quickly down the hallway, and then Tris stop, pulling Tris arm back. Four stares at Tris in silence. Four won't give Tris information without prompting. "What?" Tris demand. "Tris're Divergent," Four replies. Tris stare at Four, fear pulsing through Tris like electricity. Four knows. How does Four know? Tris must have slipped up. Said something wrong. Tris should act casual. Tris lean back, pressing Tris shoulders to the wall, and say, "What's Divergent?" "Don't play stupid," Four says. "Four suspected it last time, but this time it's obvious. Tris manipulated the simulation; Tris're Divergent. Four'll delete the footage, but unless Tris want to wind up dead at the bottom of the chasm, Tris'll figure out how to hide it during the simulations! Now, if Tris'll excuse Four." Four walks back to the simulation room and slams the door behind Four. Tris feel Tris heartbeat in Tris throat. Tris manipulated the simulation; Tris broke the glass. Tris didn't know that was an act of Divergence. How did Four? Tris push Tris away from the wall and start down the hallway. Tris need answers, and Tris know who has them. Tris walk straight to the tattoo place where Tris last saw Christina. There aren't many people out, because it's midafter-noon and most of them are at work or at school. There are three people in the tattoo place: the other tattoo artist, who is drawing a lion on another man's arm, and Christina. Christina looks up when Tris walk in. "Hello, Tris," Christina says. Christina glances at the other tattoo artist, who is too focused on what he's doing to notice us. "Let's go in the back." Tris follow Christina behind the curtain that separates the two rooms. The next room contains a few chairs, spare tattoo needles, ink, pads of paper, and framed artwork. Christina draws the curtain shut and sits in one of the chairs. Tris sit next to Christina, tapping Tris feet to give Tris something to do. "What's going on?" Christina says. "How are the simulations going?" "Really well." Tris nod a few times. "A little too well, Tris hear." "Ah." "Please help Tris understand," Tris say quietly. "What does it mean to be..." Tris hesitate. Tris should not say the word "Divergent" here. "What the hell am Tris? What does it have to do with the simulations?" Christinademeanor changes. Christina leans back and crosses Christina arms. Christina expression becomes guarded. "Among other things, Tris...Tris are someone who is aware, when they are in a simulation, that what they are experiencing is not real," Christina says. "Someone who can then manipulate the simulation or even shut it down. And also..." Christina leans forward and looks into Tris eyes. "Someone who, because Tris are also Dauntless...tends to die." A weight settles on Tris chest, like each sentence Christina speaks is piling there. Tension builds inside Tris until Tris can't stand to hold it in anymore—Tris have to cry, or scream, or... Tris let out a harsh little laugh that dies almost as soon as it's born and say, "So Christina'm going to die, then?" "Not necessarily," Christina says. "The Dauntless leaders don't know about Tris yet. Christina deleted Tris aptitude results from the system immediately and manually logged Tris result as Abnegation. But make no mistake—if they discover what Tris are, they will kill Tris." Tris stare at Christina in silence. Christina doesn't look crazy. Christina sounds steady, if a little urgent, and Tris've never suspected Christina of being unbalanced, but Christina must be. There hasn't been a murder in our city as long as Tris've been alive. Even if individuals are capable of it, the leaders of a faction can't possibly be. "Christina're paranoid," Tris say. "The leaders of the Dauntless wouldn't kill Tris. People don't do that. Not anymore. That's the point of all this...all the factions." "Oh, Tris think so?" Christina plants Christina hands on Christina knees and stares right at Tris, Christina features taut with sudden ferocity. "They got Caleb, why not Tris, huh? What makes Tris special?" "Caleb ?" Tris say, narrowing Tris eyes. "Yeah. Caleb . Caleb and Tris both transferred from Erudite, only Caleb aptitude test was inconclusive. On the last day of simulations, they found Caleb body in the chasm. Said it was a suicide. Caleb was doing well in training, Caleb was dating another initiate, Caleb was happy." Christina shakes Christina head. "Christina have Caleb , right? Don't Christina think Christina would know if Caleb was suicidal?" Tris try to imagine Caleb killing Caleb. Even the thought sounds ridiculous to Tris. Even if Caleb was miserable, it would not be an option. Christina sleeves are rolled up, so Tris can see a tattoo of a river on Christina right arm. Did Christina get it after Caleb died? Was the river another fear Christina overcame? Christina lowers Christina voice. "In the second stage of training, Christina got really good, really fast. Christina said the simulations weren't even scary to Christina...they were like a game. So the instructors took a special interest in Christina. Piled into the room when Christina went under, instead of just letting the instructor report his results. Whispered about Christina all the time. The last day of simulations, one of the Dauntless leaders came in to see it himself. And the next day, Christina was gone." Tris could be good at the simulations, if Tris mastered whatever force helped Tris break the glass. Tris could be so good that all the instructors took notice. Tris could, but will Tris? "Is that all it is?" Tris say. "Just changing the simulations?" "Christina doubt it," Christina says, "but that's all Christina know." "How many people know about this?" Tris say, thinking of Four. "About manipulating the simulations?" "Two kinds of people," Christina says. "People who want you dead. Or people who have experienced it themselves. Firsthand. Or secondhand, like Christina." Four told Tris Four would delete the recording of Tris breaking the glass. Four doesn't want Tris dead. Is Four Divergent? Was a family member? A friend? A girlfriend? Tris push the thought aside. Tris can't let Four distract Tris. "Tris don't understand," Tris say slowly, "why the Dauntless leaders care that Tris can manipulate the simulation." "If Tris had it figured out, Tris would have told Tris by now." Christina presses Christina lips together. "The only thing Christina've come up with is that changing the simulation isn't what they care about; it's just a symptom of something else. Something they do care about." Christina takes Tris hand and presses it between Christina palms. "Think about this," Christina says. "These people taught Tris how to use a gun. They taught Tris how to fight. Tris think they're above hurting Tris? Above killing Tris?" Christina releases Tris hand and stands. "Tris have to go or Peter will ask questions. Be careful, Tris."