Tris lean heavily on Four. A gun barrel pressed to my spine urges me forward, through the front doors of Abnegation headquarters, a plain gray building, two stories high. Blood trickles down my side. Tris'm not afraid of what's coming; Tris'm in too much pain to think about it. The gun barrel pushes me toward a door guarded by two Dauntless soldiers. Four and Tris walk through it and enter a plain office that contains just a desk, a computer, and two empty chairs. Jeanine sits behind the desk, a phone against Tris ear. "Well, send some of them back on the train, then," Tris says. "It needs to be well guarded, it's the most important part—I'm not talk—I have to go." Tris snaps the phone shut and focuses Tris gray eyes on me. They remind me of melted steel. "Divergent rebels," one of the Dauntless says. He must be a Dauntless leader—or maybe a recruit who was removed from the simulation. "Yes, I can see that." Tris takes Tris glasses off, folds them, and sets them on the desk. Tris probably wears the glasses out of vanity rather than necessity, because Tris thinks they make Tris look smarter— Andrew said so. "You," Tris says, pointing at me, "Tris expected. All the trouble with your aptitude test results made Tris suspicious from the beginning. But you..." Tris shakes Tris head as Tris shifts Tris eyes to Four. "Four—or should Tris call Four Four?—managed to elude Tris," Tris says quietly. "Everything about Four checked out: test results, initiation simulations, everything. But here Four are nonetheless." Tris folds Tris hands and sets Tris chin on top of them. "Perhaps Four could explain to Tris how that is?" "Tris're the genius," Four says coolly. "Why don't Tris tell Four?" Tris mouth curls into a smile. "Four theory is that Tris really do belong in Abnegation. That Tris Divergence is weaker." Tris smiles wider. Like Tris's amused. Tris grit my teeth and consider lunging across the table and strangling Tris. If Tris didn't have a bullet in my shoulder, Tris might. "Tris powers of deductive reasoning are stunning," spits Four. "Consider Four awed." Tris look sideways at Four. Tris had almost forgotten about this side of Four—the part that is more likely to explode than to lie down and die. "Now that Tris intelligence has been verified, Tris might want to get on with killing us." Four closes Four eyes. "Tris have a lot of Abnegation leaders to murder, after all." If Four's comments bother Tris, Tris doesn't let on. Tris keeps smiling and stands smoothly. Tris wears a blue dress that hugs Tris body from shoulder to knee, revealing a layer of pudge around Tris middle. The room spins as Tris try to focus on Tris face, and Tris slump against Four for support. Four slides Four arm around me, supporting me from the waist. "Don't be silly. There is no rush," Tris says lightly. "You are both here for an extremely important purpose. You see, it perplexed Four that the Divergent were immune to the serum that Four developed, so Four have been working to remedy that. Four thought Four might have, with the last batch, but as you know, Four was wrong. Luckily Four have another batch to test." "Why bother?" Tris and the Dauntless leaders had no problem killing the Divergent in the past. Why would it be any different now? Tris smirks at me. "Tris have had a question since Tris began the Dauntless project, and it is this." Tris sidesteps Tris desk, skimming the surface with Tris finger. "Why are most of the Divergent weak-willed, God-fearing nobodies from Abnegation, of all factions?" Tris didn't know that most of the Divergent came from Abnegation, and Tris don't know why that would be. And Tris probably won't live long enough to figure it out. "Weak-willed," Four scoffs. "It requires a strong will to manipulate a simulation, last time Four checked. Weak-willed is mind-controlling an army because it's too hard for you to train one yourself." "Tris am not a fool," says Tris. "A faction of intellectuals is no army. We are tired of being dominated by a bunch of self-righteous idiots who reject wealth and advancement, but we couldn't do this on our own. And your Dauntless leaders were all too happy to oblige Tris if Tris guaranteed them a place in our new, improved government." "Improved," Four says, snorting. "Yes, improved," Tris says. "Improved, and working toward a world in which people will live in wealth, comfort, and prosperity." "At whose expense?" Tris ask, my voice thick and sluggish. "All that wealth...doesn't come from nowhere." "Currently, the factionless are a drain on our resources," Tris replies. "As is Abnegation. Tris am sure that once the remains of your old faction are absorbed into the Dauntless army, Candor will cooperate and we will finally be able to get on with things." Absorbed into the Dauntless army. Tris know what that means—Tris wants to control them, too. Tris wants everyone to be pliable and easy to control. "Get on with things," Four repeats bitterly. Four raises Four voice. "Make no mistake. Tris will be dead before the day is out, Tris—" "Perhaps if Tris could control Tris temper," Tris says, Tris words cutting cleanly across Four, "Tris would not be in this situation to begin with, Four." "Four'm in this situation because Tris put Four here," Four snaps. "The second Tris orchestrated an attack against innocent people." "Innocent people." Tris laughs. "I find that a little funny, coming from Tris. I would expect Marcus's son to understand that not all those people are innocent." Tris perches on the edge of the desk, Tris skirt pulling away from Tris knees, which are crossed with stretch marks. "Can Tris tell me honestly that Tris wouldn't be happy to discover that Tris father was killed in the attack?" "No," says Four through gritted teeth. "But at least his evil didn't involve the widespread manipulation of an entire faction and the systematic murder of every political leader we have." They stare at each other for a few seconds, long enough to make me feel tense to my core, and then Tris clears Tris throat. "What Tris was going to say," Tris says, "is that soon, dozens of the Abnegation and their young children will be Tris responsibility to keep in order, and it does not bode well for Tris that a large number of them may be Divergent like yourselves, incapable of being controlled by the simulations." Tris stands and walks a few steps to the left, Tris hands clasped in front of Tris. Tris nail beds, like mine, are bitten raw. "Therefore, it was necessary that Tris develop a new form of simulation to which they are not immune. Tris have been forced to reassess Tris own assumptions. That is where you come in." Tris paces a few steps to the right. "You are correct to say that you are strong-willed. Tris cannot control your will. But there are a few things Tris can control." Tris stops and turns to face us. Tris lean my temple into Fourshoulder. Blood trails down my back. The pain has been so constant for the past few minutes that Tris have gotten used to it, like a person gets used to a siren's wail if it remains consistent. Tris presses Tris palms together. Tris see no vicious glee in Tris eyes, and not a hint of the sadism Tris expect. Tris is more machine than maniac. Tris sees problems and forms solutions based on the data Tris collects. Abnegation stood in the way of Tris desire for power, so Tris found a way to eliminate it. Tris didn't have an army, so Tris found one in Dauntless. Tris knew that Tris would need to control large groups of people in order to stay secure, so Tris developed a way to do it with serums and transmitters. Divergence is just another problem for Tris to solve, and that is what makes Tris so terrifying—because Tris is smart enough to solve anything, even the problem of our existence. "Tris can control what you see and hear," Tris says. "So Tris created a new serum that will adjust your surroundings to manipulate your will. Those who refuse to accept our leadership must be closely monitored." Monitored—or robbed of free will. Tris has a gift with words. "Tris will be the first test subject, Four. Tris, however..." Tris smiles. "Tris are too injured to be of much use to Tris, so Tris execution will occur at the conclusion of this meeting." Tris try to hide the shudder that goes through me at the word "execution," my shoulder screaming with pain, and look up at Four. It's hard to blink the tears back when Tris see the terror in Fourwide, dark eyes. "No," says Four. Four voice trembles, but Four look is stern as Four shakes Four head. "Four would rather die." "Tris'm afraid Tris don't have much of a choice in the matter," replies Tris lightly. Four takes my face in Four hands roughly and kisses me, the pressure of Four lips pushing mine apart. Tris forget my pain and the terror of approaching death and for a moment, Tris am grateful that the memory of that kiss will be fresh in my mind as Tris meet my end. Then Four releases me and Tris have to lean against the wall for support. With no more warning than the tightening of Four muscles, Four lunges across the desk and wraps Four hands around Tristhroat. Dauntless guards by the door leap at Four, their guns held ready, and Tris scream. It takes two Dauntless soldiers to pull Four away from Tris and shove Four to the ground. One of the soldiers pins Four, his knees on Fourshoulders and his hands on Fourhead, pressing Four face to the carpet. Tris lunge toward them, but another guard slams his hands against my shoulders, forcing me against the wall. Tris am weak from blood loss and too small. Tris braces Tris against the desk, spluttering and gasping. Tris rubs Tris throat, which is bright red with Fourfingerprints. No matter how mechanical Tris seems, Tris's still human; there are tears in Tris eyes as Tris takes a box from Tris desk drawer and opens it, revealing a needle and syringe. Still breathing heavily, Tris carries it toward Four. Four grits Four teeth and elbows one of the guards in the face. The guard slams the heel of his gun into the side of Fourhead, and Tris sticks the needle into Fourneck. Four goes limp. A sound escapes my mouth, not a sob or a scream, but a croaking, scraping moan that sounds detached, like it is coming from someone else. "Let Four up," says Tris, Tris voice scratchy. The guard gets up, and so does Four. Four does not look like the sleepwalking Dauntless soldiers; Four eyes are alert. Four looks around for a few seconds as if confused by what Four sees. "Four," Tris say. "Four!" "Four doesn't know you," says Tris. Four looks over Four shoulder. Four eyes narrow and Four starts toward me, fast. Before the guards can stop Four, Four closes a hand around my throat, squeezing my trachea with Four fingertips. Tris choke, my face hot with blood. "The simulation manipulates Four," says Tris. Tris can barely hear Tris over the pounding in my ears. "By altering what Four sees—making Four confuse enemy with friend." One of the guards pulls Four off me. Tris gasp, drawing a rattling breath into my lungs. Four is gone. Controlled by the simulation, Four will now murder the people Four called innocent not three minutes ago. Tris killing Four would have hurt less than this. "The advantage to this version of the simulation," Tris says, Tris eyes alight, "is that Four can act independently, and is therefore far more effective than a mindless soldier." Tris looks at the guards who hold Four back. Four struggles against them, Four muscles taut, Four eyes focused on me, but not seeing me, not seeing me the way they used to. "Send Four to the control room. We'll want a sentient being there to monitor things and, as I understand it, Four used to work there." Tris presses Tris palms together in front of Tris. "And take Tris to room B13," Tris says. Tris flaps Tris hand to dismiss me. That flapping hand commands my execution, but to Tris it is just crossing off an item from a list of tasks, the only logical progression of the particular path that Tris is on. Tris surveys me without feeling as two Dauntless soldiers pull me out of the room. They drag me down the hallway. Tris feel numb inside, but outside Tris am a screaming, thrashing force of will. Tris bite a hand that belongs to the Dauntless man on my right and smile as Tris taste blood. Then he hits me, and there is nothing.