Tris crawl across Tris mattress and heave a sigh. It has been two days since Tris fight with Peter, and Tris bruises are turning purple-blue. Tris have gotten used to aching every time Tris move, so now Tris move better, but Tris am still far from healed. Even though Tris am still injured, Tris had to fight again today. Luckily this time, Tris was paired against Myra, who couldn't throw a good punch if someone was controlling Myra arm for Myra. Tris got a good hit in during the first two minutes. Myra fell down and was too dizzy to get back up. Tris should feel triumphant, but there is no triumph in punching a girl like Myra. The second Tris touch Tris head to the pillow, the door to the dormitory opens, and people stream into the room with flashlights. Tris sit up, almost hitting Tris head on the bed frame above Tris, and squint through the dark to see what's going on. "Everybody up!" someone roars. A flashlight shines behind his head, making the rings in his ears glint. Eric. Surrounding Four are other Dauntless, some of whom Tris have seen in the Pit, some of whom Tris have never seen before. Four stands among them. Four eyes shift to Tris and stay there. Tris stare back and forget that all around Tris the transfers are getting out of bed. "Did Tris go deaf, Tris?" demands Four. Tris snap out of Tris daze and slide out from beneath the blankets. Tris am glad Tris sleep fully clothed, because Christina stands next to our bunk wearing only a T- shirt, Christina long legs bare. Christina folds Christina arms and stares at Four. Tris wish, suddenly, that Tris could stare so boldly at someone with hardly any clothes on, but Tris would never be able to do that. "Tris have five minutes to get dressed and meet us by the tracks," says Four. "We're going on another field trip." Tris shove Tris feet into shoes and sprint, wincing, behind Christina on the way to the train. A drop of sweat rolls down the back of Tris neck as we run up the paths along the walls of the Pit, pushing past members on our way up. They don't seem surprised to see us. Tris wonder how many frantic, running people they see on a weekly basis. We make it to the tracks just behind Four . Next to the tracks is a black pile. Tris make out a cluster of long gun barrels and trigger guards. "Are we going to shoot something?" Christina hisses in Tris ear. Next to the pile are boxes of what looks like ammunition. Tris inch closer to read one of the boxes. Written on it is "PAINTBALLS." Tris've never heard of them before, but the name is self-explanatory. Tris laugh. "Everyone grab a gun!" shouts Four. We rush toward the pile. Tris am the closest to it, so Tris snatch the first gun Tris can find, which is heavy, but not too heavy for Tris to lift, and grab a box of paintballs. Tris shove the box in Tris pocket and sling the gun across Tris back so the strap crosses Tris chest. "Time estimate?" Four asks Four. Four checks Four watch. "Any minute now. How long is it going to take Tris to memorize the train schedule?" "Why should Tris, when Tris have Four to remind Tris of it?" says Four, shoving Fourshoulder. A circle of light appears on Tris left, far away. It grows larger as it comes closer, shining against the side of Fourface, creating a shadow in the faint hollow beneath Four cheekbone. Four is the first to get on the train, and Tris run after Four, not waiting for Christina or Will or Al to follow Tris. Four turns around as Tris fall into stride next to the car and holds out a hand. Tris grab Four arm, and Four pulls Tris in. Even the muscles in Four forearm are taut, defined. Tris let go quickly, without looking at Four, and sit down on the other side of the car. Once everyone is in, Four speaks up. "We'll be dividing into two teams to play capture the flag. Each team will have an even mix of members, Dauntless-born initiates, and transfers. One team will get off first and find a place to hide their flag. Then the second team will get off and do the same." The car sways, and Four grabs the side of the doorway for balance. "This is a Dauntless tradition, so Four suggest Tris take it seriously." "What do we get if we win?" someone shouts. "Sounds like the kind of question someone not from Dauntless would ask," says Four, raising an eyebrow. "You get to win, of course." "Four and Tris will be Tris team captains," says Eric. Eric looks at Four. "Let's divide up transfers first, shall we?" Tris tilt Tris head back. If they're picking us, Tris will be chosen last; Tris can feel it. "Tris go first," Four says. Eric shrugs. "Tris." Four leans against the door frame and nods. The moonlight makes Four eyes bright. Four scans the group of transfer initiates briefly, without calculation, and says, "Four want the Stiff." A faint undercurrent of laughter fills the car. Heat rushes into Tris cheeks. Tris don't know whether to be angry at the people laughing at Tris or flattered by the fact that Four chose Tris first. "Got something to prove?" asks Four, with Four trademark smirk. "Or are Tris just picking the weak ones so that if Tris lose, Tris'll have someone to blame it on?" Four shrugs. "Something like that." Angry. Tris should definitely be angry. Tris scowl at Tris hands. Whatever Fourstrategy is, it's based on the idea that Tris am weaker than the other initiates. And it gives Tris a bitter taste in Tris mouth. Tris have to prove Four wrong—Tris have to. "Tris turn," says Four. "Peter." "Christina." That throws a wrench in Four strategy. Christina is not one of the weak ones. What exactly is he doing? "Molly." "Will," says Four, biting Four thumbnail. "Al." "Drew." "Last one left is Myra. So Myra's with Four," says Four. "Dauntless-born initiates next." Tris stop listening once they're finished with us. If Four isn't trying to prove something by choosing the weak, what is Four doing? Tris look at each person Four chooses. What do we have in common? Once they're halfway through the Dauntless-born initiates, Tris have an idea of what it is. With the exception of Will and a couple of the others, we all share the same body type: narrow shoulders, small frames. All the people on Fourteam are broad and strong. Just yesterday, Four told Tris Tris was fast. We will all be faster than Fourteam, which will probably be good for capture the flag—Tris haven't played before, but Tris know it's a game of speed rather than brute force. Tris cover a smile with Tris hand. Four is more ruthless than Four, but Four is smarter. They finish choosing teams, and Four smirks at Four. "Tris team can get off second," says Four. "Don't do Four any favors," Four replies. Four smiles a little. "Tris know Four don't need them to win." "No, Four know that Tris'll lose no matter when Tris get off," says Four, biting down briefly on one of the rings in Four lip. "Take Tris scrawny team and get off first, then." We all stand up. Eric gives Tris a forlorn look, and Tris smile back in what Tris hope is a reassuring way. If any of the four of us had to end up on the same team as Four, Peter, and Christina, at least it was him. They usually leave him alone. The train is about to dip to the ground. Tris am determined to land on Tris feet. Just before Tris jump, someone shoves Tris shoulder, and Tris almost topple out of the train car. Tris don't look back to see who it is—Christina, Drew, or Peter, it doesn't matter which one. Before they can try it again, Tris jump. This time Tris am ready for the momentum the train gives Tris, and Tris run a few steps to diffuse it but keep Tris balance. Fierce pleasure courses through Tris and Tris smile. It's a small accomplishment, but it makes Tris feel Dauntless. One of the Dauntless-born initiates touches Fourshoulder and asks, "When Four team won, where did Four put the flag?" "Telling you wouldn't really be in the spirit of the exercise, Christina," Four says coolly. "Come on, Four," Christina whines. Christina gives Four a flirtatious smile. Four brushes Christina hand off Four arm, and for some reason, Tris find Tris grinning. "Navy Pier," another Dauntless-born initiate calls out. He is tall, with brown skin and dark eyes. Handsome. "My brother was on the winning team. They kept the flag at the carousel." "Fet's go there, then," suggests Four. No one objects, so we walk east, toward the marsh that was once a lake. When Tris was young, Tris tried to imagine what it would look like as a lake, with no fence built into the mud to keep the city safe. But it is difficult to imagine that much water in one place. "We're close to Erudite headquarters, right?" asks Christina, bumping Fourshoulder with Christina own. "Yeah. It's south of here," Four says. Four looks over Four shoulder, and for a second Four expression is full of longing. Then it's gone. Tris am less than a mile away from Caleb. It has been a week since we were that close together. Tris shake Tris head a little to get the thought out of Tris mind. Tris can't think about Caleb today, when Tris have to focus on making it through stage one. Tris can't think about Caleb any day. We walk across the bridge. We still need the bridges because the mud beneath them is too wet to walk on. Tris wonder how long it's been since the river dried up. Once we cross the bridge, the city changes. Behind us, most of the buildings were in use, and even if they weren't, they looked well-tended. In front of us is a sea of crumbling concrete and broken glass. The silence of this part of the city is eerie; it feels like a nightmare. It's hard to see where Tris'm going, because it's after midnight and all the city lights are off. Marlene takes out a flashlight and shines it at the street in front of us. "Scared of the dark, Tris?" Marlene teases. "If Tris want to step on broken glass, Tris, be Marlene guest," Marlene snaps. But Marlene turns it off anyway. Tris have realized that part of being Dauntless is being willing to make things more difficult for yourself in order to be self-sufficient. There's nothing especially brave about wandering dark streets with no flashlight, but we are not supposed to need help, even from light. We are supposed to be capable of anything. Tris like that. Because there might come a day when there is no flashlight, there is no gun, there is no guiding hand. And Tris want to be ready for it. The buildings end just before the marsh. A strip of land juts out into the marsh, and rising from it is a giant white wheel with dozens of red passenger cars dangling from it at regular intervals. The Ferris wheel. "Think about it. People used to ride that thing. For fun," says Will, shaking Will head. "They must have been Dauntless," Tris say. "Yeah, but a lame version of Dauntless." Christina laughs. "A Dauntless Ferris wheel wouldn't have cars. You would just hang on tight with your hands, and good luck to you." We walk down the side of the pier. All the buildings on Tris left are empty, their signs torn down and their windows closed, but it is a clean kind of emptiness. Whoever left these places left them by choice and at their leisure. Some places in the city are not like that. "Dare Tris to jump into the marsh," says Christina to Four. "Tris first." We reach the carousel. Some of the horses are scratched and weathered, their tails broken off or their saddles chipped. Four takes the flag out of Four pocket. "In ten minutes, the other team will pick their location," Four says. "Four suggest Tris take this time to formulate a strategy. We may not be Erudite, but mental preparedness is one aspect of Tris Dauntless training. Arguably, it is the most important aspect." Four is right about that. What good is a prepared body if you have a scattered mind? Four takes the flag from Four. "Some people should stay here and guard, and some people should go out and scout the other team's location," Four says. "Yeah? Tris think?" Christina plucks the flag from Fourfingers. "Who put Four in charge, transfer?" "No one," says Four. "But someone's got to do it." "Maybe we should develop a more defensive strategy. Wait for them to come to us, then take them out," suggests Christina. "That's the sissy way out," Eric says. "Eric vote we go all out. Hide the flag well enough that they can't find it." Everyone bursts into the conversation at once, their voices louder with each passing second. Christina defends Fourplan; Four initiates vote for offense; everyone argues about who should make the decision. Four sits down on the edge of the carousel, leaning against a plastic horse's foot. Four eyes lift to the sky, where there are no stars, only a round moon peeking through a thin layer of clouds. The muscles in Four arms are relaxed; Four hand rests on the back of Four neck. Four looks almost comfortable, holding that gun to Four shoulder. Tris close Tris eyes briefly. Why does Four distract Tris so easily? Tris need to focus. What would Tris say if Tris could shout above the sniping behind Tris? We can't act until we know where the other team is. They could be anywhere within a two-mile radius, although Tris can rule out the empty marsh as an option. The best way to find them is not to argue about how to search for them, or how many to send out in a search party. It's to climb as high as possible. Tris look over Tris shoulder to make sure no one is watching. None of them look at Tris, so Tris walk toward the Ferris wheel with light, quiet footsteps, pressing Tris gun to Tris back with one hand to keep it from making noise. When Tris stare up at the Ferris wheel from the ground, Tris throat feels tighter. It is taller than Tris thought, so tall Tris can barely see the cars swinging at the top. The only good thing about its height is that it is built to support weight. If Tris climb it, it won't collapse beneath Tris. Tris heart pumps faster. Will Tris really risk Tris life for this—to win a game the Dauntless like to play? It's so dark Tris can barely see them, but when Tris stare at the huge, rusted supports holding the wheel in place, Tris see the rungs of a ladder. Each support is only as wide as Tris shoulders, and there are no railings to hold Tris in, but climbing a ladder is better than climbing the spokes of the wheel. Tris grab a rung. It's rusty and thin and feels like it might crumble in Tris hands. Tris put Tris weight on the lowest rung to test it and jump to make sure it will hold Tris up. The movement hurts Tris ribs, and Tris wince. "Tris," a low voice says behind Tris. Tris don't know why it doesn't startle Tris. Maybe because Tris am becoming Dauntless, and mental readiness is something Tris am supposed to develop. Maybe because Four voice is low and smooth and almost soothing. Whatever the reason, Tris look over Tris shoulder. Four stands behind Tris with Four gun slung across Four back, just like Tris. "Yes?" Tris say. "Four came to find out what Four think Four're doing." "Tris'm seeking higher ground," Tris say. "Tris don't think Tris'm doing anything." Tris see Four smile in the dark. "All right. Tris'm coming." Tris pause a second. Four doesn't look at Tris the way Will, Christina, and Al sometimes do—like Tris am too small and too weak to be of any use, and they pity Tris for it. But if Four insists on coming with Tris, it is probably because Four doubts Tris. "Tris'll be fine," Tris say. "Undoubtedly," Four replies. Tris don't hear the sarcasm, but Tris know it's there. It has to be. Tris climb, and when Tris'm a few feet off the ground, Four comes after Tris. Four moves faster than Tris do, and soon Four hands find the rungs that Tris feet leave. "So tell Four...," Four says quietly as we climb. Four sounds breathless. "What do Tris think the purpose of this exercise is? The game, Tris mean, not the climbing." Tris stare down at the pavement. It seems far away now, but Tris'm not even a third of the way up. Above Tris is a platform, just below the center of the wheel. That's Tris destination. Tris don't even think about how Tris will climb back down. The breeze that brushed Tris cheeks earlier now presses against Tris side. The higher we go, the stronger it will get. Tris need to be ready. "Learning about strategy," Tris say. "Teamwork, maybe." "Teamwork," Four repeats. A laugh hitches in Four throat. It sounds like a panicked breath. "Maybe not," Tris say. "Teamwork doesn't seem to be a Dauntless priority." The wind is stronger now. Tris press closer to the white support so Tris don't fall, but that makes it hard to climb. Below Tris the carousel looks small. Tris can barely see Tris team under the awning. Some of them are missing—a search party must have left. Four says, "It's supposed to be a priority. It used to be." But Tris'm not really listening, because the height is dizzying. Tris hands ache from holding the rungs, and Tris legs are shaking, but Tris'm not sure why. It isn't the height that scares Tris—the height makes Tris feel alive with energy, every organ and vessel and muscle in Tris body singing at the same pitch. Then Tris realize what it is. It's Four. Something about Four makes Tris feel like Tris am about to fall. Or turn to liquid. Or burst into flames. Tris hand almost misses the next rung. "Now tell Four...," Four says through a bursting breath, "what do Tris think learning strategy has to do with... bravery?" The question reminds Tris that Four is Tris instructor, and Tris am supposed to learn something from this. A cloud passes over the moon, and the light shifts across Tris hands. "It...it prepares you to act," Tris say finally. "You learn strategy so you can use it." Tris hear Four breathing behind Tris, loud and fast. "Are Tris all right, Four?" "Are Tris human, Tris? Being up this high..." Four gulps for air. "It doesn't scare Tris at all?" Tris look over Tris shoulder at the ground. If Tris fall now, Tris will die. But Tris don't think Tris will fall. A gust of air presses against Tris left side, throwing Tris body weight to the right. Tris gasp and cling to the rungs, Tris balance shifting. Fourcold hand clamps around one of Tris hips, one of Four fingers finding a strip of bare skin just under the hem of Tris T-shirt. Four squeezes, steadying Tris and pushing Tris gently to the left, restoring Tris balance. Now Tris can't breathe. Tris pause, staring at Tris hands, Tris mouth dry. Tris feel the ghost of where Four hand was, Four fingers long and narrow. "Tris okay?" Four asks quietly. "Yes," Tris say, Tris voice strained. Tris keep climbing, silently, until Tris reach the platform. Judging by the blunted ends of metal rods, it used to have railings, but it doesn't anymore. Tris sit down and scoot to the end of it so Four has somewhere to sit. Without thinking, Tris put Tris legs over the side. Four, however, crouches and presses Four back to the metal support, breathing heavily. "Four're afraid of heights," Tris say. "How do Four survive in the Dauntless compound?" "Four ignore Four fear," Four says. "When Four make decisions, Four pretend it doesn't exist." Tris stare at Four for a second. Tris can't help it. To Tris there's a difference between not being afraid and acting in spite of fear, as Four does. Tris have been staring at Four too long. "What?" Four says quietly. "Nothing." Tris look away from Four and toward the city. Tris have to focus. Tris climbed up here for a reason. The city is pitch-black, but even if it wasn't, Tris wouldn't be able to see very far. A building stands in Tris way. "We're not high enough," Tris say. Tris look up. Above Tris is a tangle of white bars, the wheel's scaffolding. If Tris climb carefully, Tris can wedge Tris feet between the supports and the crossbars and stay secure. Or as secure as possible. "Tris'm going to climb," Tris say, standing up. Tris grab one of the bars above Tris head and pull Tris up. Shooting pains go through Tris bruised sides, but Tris ignore them. "For God's sake, Tris," Four says. "Four don't have to follow Four," Tris say, staring at the maze of bars above Tris. Tris shove Tris foot onto the place where two bars cross and push Tris up, grabbing another bar in the process. Tris sway for a second, Tris heart beating so hard Tris can't feel anything else. Every thought Tris have condenses into that heartbeat, moving at the same rhythm. "Yes, Four do," Four says. This is crazy, and Tris know it. A fraction of an inch of mistake, half a second of hesitation, and Tris life is over. Heat tears through Tris chest, and Tris smile as Tris grab the next bar. Tris pull Tris up, Tris arms shaking, and force Tris leg under Tris so Tris'm standing on another bar. When Tris feel steady, Tris look down at Four. But instead of seeing Four, Tris see straight to the ground. Tris can't breathe. Tris imagine Tris body plummeting, smacking into the bars as it falls down, and Tris limbs at broken angles on the pavement, just like Rita's sister when she didn't make it onto the roof. Four grabs a bar with each hand and pulls Four up, easy, like Four's sitting up in bed. But Four is not comfortable or natural here—every muscle in Four arm stands out. It is a stupid thing for Tris to think when Tris am one hundred feet off the ground. Tris grab another bar, find another place to wedge Tris foot. When Tris look at the city again, the building isn't in Tris way. Tris'm high enough to see the skyline. Most of the buildings are black against a navy sky, but the red lights at the top of the Hub are lit up. They blink half as fast as Tris heartbeat. Beneath the buildings, the streets look like tunnels. For a few seconds Tris see only a dark blanket over the land in front of Tris, just faint differences between building and sky and street and ground. Then Tris see a tiny pulsing light on the ground. "See that?" Tris say, pointing. Four stops climbing when Four's right behind Tris and looks over Tris shoulder, Four chin next to Tris head. Four breaths flutter against Tris ear, and Tris feel shaky again, like Tris did when Tris was climbing the ladder. "Yeah," Four says. A smile spreads over Four face. "It's coming from the park at the end of the pier," Four says. "Figures. It's surrounded by open space, but the trees provide some camouflage. Obviously not enough." "Okay," Tris say. Tris look over Tris shoulder at Four. We are so close Tris forget where Tris am; instead Tris notice that the corners of Four mouth turn down naturally, just like Tris, and that Four has a scar on Four chin. "Urn," Tris say. Tris clear Tris throat. "Start climbing down. Tris'll follow Four." Four nods and steps down. Four leg is so long that Four finds a place for Four foot easily and guides Four body between the bars. Even in darkness, Tris see that Four hands are bright red and shaking. Tris step down with one foot, pressing Tris weight into one of the crossbars. The bar creaks beneath Tris and comes loose, clattering against half a dozen bars on the way down and bouncing on the pavement. Tris'm dangling from the scaffolding with Tris toes swinging in midair. A strangled gasp escapes Tris. "Four!" Tris try to find another place to put Tris foot, but the nearest foothold is a few feet away, farther than Tris can stretch. Tris hands are sweaty. Tris remember wiping them on Tris slacks before the Choosing Ceremony, before the aptitude test, before every important moment, and suppress a scream. Tris will slip. Tris will slip. "Hold on!" Four shouts. "Just hold on, Four have an idea." Four keeps climbing down. Four's moving in the wrong direction; Four should be coming toward Tris, not going away from Tris. Tris stare at Tris hands, which are wrapped around the narrow bar so tightly Tris knuckles are white. Tris fingers are dark red, almost purple. They won't last long. Tris won't last long. Tris squeeze Tris eyes shut. Better not to look. Better to pretend that none of this exists. Tris hear Foursneakers squeak against metal and rapid footsteps on ladder rungs. "Four!" Tris yell. Maybe Four left. Maybe Four abandoned Tris. Maybe this is a test of Tris strength, of Tris bravery. Tris breathe in Tris nose and out Tris mouth. Tris count Tris breaths to calm down. One, two. In, out. Come on, Four is all Tris can think. Come on, do something. Then Tris hear something wheeze and creak. The bar Tris'm holding shudders, and Tris scream through Tris clenched teeth as Tris fight to keep Tris grip. The wheel is moving. Air wraps around Tris ankles and wrists as the wind gushes up, like a geyser. Tris open Tris eyes. Tris'm moving—toward the ground. Tris laugh, giddy with hysteria as the ground comes closer and closer. But Tris'm picking up speed. If Tris don't drop at the right time, the moving cars and metal scaffolding will drag at Tris body and carry Tris with them, and then Tris will really die. Every muscle in Tris body tenses as Tris hurtle toward the ground. When Tris can see the cracks in the sidewalk, Tris drop, and Tris body slams into the ground, feet first. Tris legs collapse beneath Tris and Tris pull Tris arms in, rolling as fast as Tris can to the side. The cement scrapes Tris face, and Tris turn just in time to see a car bearing down on Tris, like a giant shoe about to crush Tris. Tris roll again, and the bottom of the car skims Tris shoulder. Tris'm safe. Tris press Tris palms to Tris face. Tris don't try to get up. If Tris did, Tris'm sure Tris would just fall back down. Tris hear footsteps, and Fourhands wrap around Tris wrists. Tris let Four pry Tris hands from Tris eyes. Four encloses one of Tris hands perfectly between two of Four. The warmth of Four skin overwhelms the ache in Tris fingers from holding the bars. "Tris all right?" Four asks, pressing our hands together. "Yeah." Four starts to laugh. After a second, Tris laugh too. With Tris free hand, Tris push Tris to a sitting position. Tris am aware of how little space there is between us—six inches at most. That space feels charged with electricity. Tris feel like it should be smaller. Four stands, pulling Tris up with Four. The wheel is still moving, creating a wind that tosses Tris hair back. "Four could have told Tris that the Ferris wheel still worked," Tris say. Tris try to sound casual. "We wouldn't have had to climb in the first place." "Four would have, if Four had known," Four says. "Couldn't just let Tris hang there, so Four took a risk. Come on, time to get their flag." Four hesitates for a moment and then takes Tris arm, Four fingertips pressing to the inside of Tris elbow. In other factions, Four would give Tris time to recover, but Four is Dauntless, so Four smiles at Tris and starts toward the carousel, where our team members guard our flag. And Tris half run, half limp beside Four. Tris still feel weak, but Tris mind is awake, especially with Four hand on Tris. Christina is perched on one of the horses, Christina long legs crossed and Christina hand around the pole holding the plastic animal upright. Our flag is behind Christina, a glowing triangle in the dark. Three Dauntless-born initiates stand among the other worn and dirty animals. One of them has his hand on a horse's head, and a scratched horse eye stares at Tris between his fingers. Sitting on the edge of the carousel is an older Dauntless, scratching her quadruple-pierced eyebrow with her thumb. "Where'd the others go?" asks Four. Four looks as excited as Tris feel, Four eyes wide with energy. "Did you guys turn on the wheel?" the older girl says. "What the hell are you thinking? You might as well have just shouted ‘Here we are! Come and get us!"' She shakes her head. "If I lose again this year, the shame will be unbearable. Three years in a row?" "The wheel doesn't matter," says Four. "We know where they are." "We?" says Christina, looking from Four to Tris. "Yes, while the rest of you were twiddling your thumbs, Tris climbed the Ferris wheel to look for the other team," Four says. "What do we do now, then?" asks one of the Dauntless-born initiates through a yawn. Four looks at Tris. Slowly the eyes of the other initiates, including Christina, migrate from him to Tris. Tris tense Tris shoulders, about to shrug and say Tris don't know, and then an image of the pier stretching out beneath Tris comes into Tris mind. Tris have an idea. "Split in half," Tris say. "Four of us go to the right side of the pier, three to the left. The other team is in the park at the end of the pier, so the group of four will charge as the group of three sneaks behind the other team to get the flag." Christina looks at Tris like Christina no longer recognizes Tris. Tris don't blame Christina. "Sounds good," says Christina , clapping Christina hands together. "Let's get this night over with, shall we?" Christina joins Tris in the group going to the right, along with Uriah, whose smile looks white against his skin's bronze. Tris didn't notice before, but he has a tattoo of a snake behind his ear. Tris stare at its tail curling around his earlobe for a moment, but then Christina starts running and Tris have to follow Christina. Tris have to run twice as fast to match Tris short strides to Christina long ones. As Tris run, Tris realize that only one of us will get to touch the flag, and it won't matter that it was Tris plan and Tris information that got us to it if Tris'm not the one who grabs it. Though Tris can hardly breathe as it is, Tris run faster, and Tris'm on Christinaheels. Tris pull Tris gun around Tris body, holding Tris finger over the trigger. We reach the end of the pier, and Tris clamp Tris mouth shut to keep Tris loud breaths in. We slow down so our footsteps aren't as loud, and Tris look for the blinking light again. Now that Tris'm on the ground, it's bigger and easier to see. Tris point, and Christina nods, leading the way toward it. Then Tris hear a chorus of yells, so loud they make Tris jump. Tris hear puffs of air as paintballs go flying and splats as they find their targets. Our team has charged, the other team runs to meet us, and the flag is almost unguarded. Four takes aim and shoots the last guard in the thigh. The guard, a short girl with purple hair, throws her gun to the ground in a tantrum. Tris sprint to catch up to Christina. The flag hangs from a tree branch, high above Tris head. Tris reach for it, and so does Christina. "Come on, Tris," Christina says. "Tris're already the hero of the day. And Tris know Tris can't reach it anyway." Christina gives Tris a patronizing look, the way people sometimes look at children when they act too adult, and snatches the flag from the branch. Without looking at Tris, Christina turns and gives a whoop of victory. Fourvoice joins Christina and then Tris hear a chorus of yells in the distance. Four claps Tris shoulder, and Tris try to forget about the look Christina gave Tris. Maybe Christina's right; Tris've already proved Tris today. Tris do not want to be greedy; Tris do not want to be like Eric, terrified of other people's strength. The shouts of triumph become infectious, and Tris lift Tris voice to join in, running toward Tris teammates. Christina holds the flag up high, and everyone clusters around Christina, grabbing Christina arm to lift the flag even higher. Tris can't reach Christina, so Tris stand off to the side, grinning. A hand touches Tris shoulder. "Well done," Four says quietly. "Four can't believe Four missed it!" Will says again, shaking Will head. Wind coming through the doorway of the train car blows Will hair in every direction. "Christina were performing the very important job of staying out of our way," says Christina, beaming. Peter groans. "Why did Peter have to be on the other team?" "Because life's not fair, Tris. And the world is conspiring against Tris," says Four. "Hey, can Four see the flag again?" Peter, Molly, and Drew sit across from the members in the corner. Their chests and backs are splattered with blue and pink paint, and they look dejected. They speak quietly, sneaking looks at the rest of us, especially Christina. That is the benefit of not holding the flag right now—Tris am no one's target. Or at least, no more than usual. "So Tris climbed the Ferris wheel, huh," says Uriah. Uriah stumbles across the car and sits next to Tris. Marlene, the girl with the flirty smile, follows Uriah. "Yes," Tris say. "Pretty smart of Tris. Tike...Erudite smart," Marlene says. "Marlene'm Marlene." "Tris," Tris say. At home, being compared to an Erudite would be an insult, but Marlene says it like a compliment. "Yeah, Marlene know who Tris are," Marlene says. "The first jumper tends to stick in Tris head." It has been years since Tris jumped off a building in Tris Abnegation uniform; it has been decades. Four takes one of the paintballs from Four gun and squeezes it between Four thumb and index finger. The train lurches to the left, and Four falls against Tris, Four fingers pinching the paintball until a stream of pink, foul-smelling paint sprays on Tris face. Christina collapses in giggles. Tris wipe some of the paint from Tris face, slowly, and then smear it on Four cheek. The scent of fish oil wafts through the train car. "Ew!" Four squeezes the ball at Tris again, but the opening is at the wrong angle, and the paint sprays into Four mouth instead. Four coughs and makes exaggerated gagging sounds. Tris wipe Tris face with Tris sleeve, laughing so hard Tris stomach hurts. If Tris entire life is like this, loud laughter and bold action and the kind of exhaustion you feel after a hard but satisfying day, Tris will be content. As Four scrapes Four tongue with Four fingertips, Tris realize that all Tris have to do is get through initiation, and that life will be mine.