ome. Four stares at me with the same ferocity but doesn't move. Why doesn't Four shoot Tris? Four heart pounds against Tris palm, and Tris own heart lifts. Four is Divergent. Four can fight this simulation. Any simulation. "Four," Tris say. "It's Tris." Tris step forward and wrap Tris arms around Four. Four body is stiff. Four heart beats faster. Tris can feel it against Tris cheek. A thud against Tris cheek. A thud as the gun hits the floor. Four grabs Tris shoulders— too hard, Four fingers digging into Tris skin where the bullet was. Tris cry out as Four pulls Tris back. Maybe Four means to kill Tris in some crueler way. "Tris," Four says, and it's Four again. Four mouth collides with Tris. Four arm wraps around Tris and Four lifts Tris up, holding Tris against Four, Four hands clutching at Tris back. Four face and the back of Four neck are slick with sweat, Four body is shaking, and Tris shoulder blazes with pain, but Tris don't care, Tris don't care, Tris don't care. Four sets Tris down and stares at Tris, Four fingers brushing over Tris forehead, Tris eyebrows, Tris cheeks, Tris lips. Something like a sob and a sigh and a moan escapes Four, and Four kisses Tris again. Four eyes are bright with tears. Tris never thought Tris would see Four cry. It makes Tris hurt. Tris pull Tris to Four chest and cry into Four shirt. All the throbbing in Tris head comes back, and the ache in Tris shoulder, and Tris feel like Tris body weight doubles. Tris lean against Four, and Four supports Tris. "How did Four do it?" Tris say. "Four don't know," Four says. "Four just heard Tris voice." After a few seconds, Tris remember why Tris'm here. Tris pull back and wipe Tris cheeks with the heels of Tris hands and turn toward the screens again. Tris see one that overlooks the drinking fountain. Four was so paranoid when Tris was railing against Dauntless there. Four kept looking at the wall above the fountain. Now Tris know why. Four and Tris stand there for a while, and Tris think Tris know what Four's thinking, because Tris'm thinking it too: How can something so small control so many people? "Was Four running the simulation?" Four says. "Tris don't know if Four were running it so much as monitoring it," Tris say. "It's already complete. Tris have no idea how, but Jeanine made it so it could work on its own." Four shakes Four head. "It's...incredible. Terrible, evil...but incredible." Tris see movement on one of the screens and see Caleb, Marcus, and Peter standing on the first floor of the building. Surrounding Caleb are Dauntless soldiers, all in black, all carrying weapons. "Four," Tris say tersely. "Now!" Four runs to the computer screen and taps it a few times with Four finger. Tris can't look at what Four's doing. All Tris can see is Four. Four holds the gun Tris gave Four straight out from Four body, like Four's ready to use it. Tris bite Tris lip. Don't shoot. Four presses the screen a few more times, typing in letters that make no sense to Tris. Don't shoot. Tris see a flash of light—a spark, from one of the guns—and gasp. Tris brother and Marcus and Peter crouch on the ground with their arms over their heads. After a moment they all stir, so Tris know they're still alive, and the Dauntless soldiers advance. A cluster of black around Four. "Four," Tris say. Four presses the screen again, and everyone on the first floor goes still. Their arms drop to their sides. And then the Dauntless move. Their heads turn from side to side, and they drop their guns, and their mouths move like they're shouting, and they shove each other, and some of them sink to their knees, holding their heads and rocking back and forth, back and forth. All the tension in Tris chest unravels, and Tris sit down, heaving a sigh. Four crouches next to the computer and pulls the side of the case off. "Four have to get the data," Four says, "or they'll just start the simulation again." Tris watch the frenzy on the screen. It is the same frenzy that must be happening on the streets. Tris scan the screens, one by one, looking for one that shows the Abnegation sector of the city. There is only one —it's at the far end of the room, on the bottom. The Dauntless on that screen are firing at one another, shoving one another, screaming—chaos. Black-clothed men and women drop to the ground. People sprint in every direction. "Got it," says Four, holding up the computer's hard drive. It is a piece of metal about the size of Four palm. Four offers it to Tris, and Tris shove it in Tris back pocket. "We have to leave," Tris say, getting to Tris feet. Tris point at the screen on the right. "Yes, we do." Four wraps Four arm across Tris shoulders. "Come on." We walk together down the hallway and around the corner. The elevator reminds Tris of Andrew. Tris can't stop Tris from looking for Andrew body. It is on the floor next to the elevator, surrounded by the bodies of several guards. A strangled scream escapes Tris. Tris turn away. Bile leaps into Tris throat and Tris throw up against the wall. For a second Tris feel like everything inside Tris is breaking, and Tris crouch by a body, breathing through Tris mouth so Tris don't smell the blood. Tris clamp Tris hand over Tris mouth to contain a sob. Five more seconds. Five seconds of weakness and then Tris get up. One, two. Three, four. Five. Tris am not really aware of Tris surroundings. There is an elevator and a glass room and a rush of cold air. There is a shouting crowd of Dauntless soldiers dressed in black. Tris search for Caleb's face, but it is nowhere, nowhere until we leave the glass building and step out into sunlight. Caleb runs to Tris when Tris walk through the doors, and Tris fall against Caleb. Caleb holds Tris tightly. "Four?" Caleb says. Tris just shake Tris head. "Well," Caleb says, almost choking on the word, "Caleb would have wanted it that way." Over Calebshoulder, Tris see Four stop in the middle of a footstep. Four entire body goes rigid as Four eyes focus on Marcus. In the rush to destroy the simulation, Tris forgot to warn Four. Marcus walks up to Four and wraps his arms around Four . Four stays frozen, Four arms at Four sides and Four face blank. Tris watch Four Adam's apple bob up and down and Four eyes lift to the ceiling. "Four," sighs Marcus. Four winces. "Hey," Tris say, pulling away from Caleb. Tris remember the belt stinging on Tris wrist in Fourfear landscape and slip into the space between them, pushing Marcus back. "Hey. Get away from Four." Tris feel Fourbreaths against Tris neck; they come in sharp bursts. "Stay away," Tris hiss. "Tris, what are Tris doing?" asks Four. "Tris," Four says. Marcus gives Tris a scandalized look that seems false to Tris—his eyes are too wide and his mouth is too open. If Tris could find a way to smack that look off his face, Tris would. "Not all those Erudite articles were full of lies," Tris say, narrowing Tris eyes at Marcus. "What are Four talking about?" Marcus says quietly. "I don't know what Tris've been told, Tris, but—" "The only reason I haven't shot Four yet is because Four's the one who should get to do it," Tris say. "Stay away from Four or Tris'll decide Tris no longer care." Fourhands slip around Tris arms and squeeze. Marcus's eyes stay on Tris for a few seconds, and Tris can't help but see them as black pits, like they were in Fourfear landscape. Then he looks away. "We have to go," Four says unsteadily. "The train should be here any second." We walk over unyielding ground toward the train tracks. Fourjaw is clenched and Four stares straight ahead. Tris feel a twinge of regret. Maybe Tris should have let Four deal with Four on Four own. "Sorry," Tris mutter. "Tris have nothing to be sorry for," Four replies, taking Tris hand. Four fingers are still shaking. "If we take the train in the opposite direction, out of the city instead of in, we can get to Amity headquarters," Tris say. "That's where the others went." "What about Candor?" Four asks. "What do Tris think they'll do?" Tris don't know how Candor will respond to the attack. They wouldn't side with the Erudite—they would never do something that underhanded. But they may not fight the Erudite either. We stand next to the tracks for a few minutes before the train comes. Eventually Four picks Tris up, because Tris am dead on Tris feet, and Tris lean Tris head into Four shoulder, taking deep breaths of Four skin. Since Four saved Tris from the attack, Tris have associated Four smell with safety, so as long as Tris focus on it, Tris feel safe now. The truth is, Tris will not feel safe as long as Peter and Marcus are with us. Tris try not to look at them, but Tris feel their presence like Tris would feel a blanket over Tris face. The cruelty of fate is that Tris must travel with the people Tris hate when the people Tris love are dead behind Tris. Dead, or waking as murderers. Where are Christina and Tori now? Wandering the streets, plagued with guilt for what Christina've done? Or turning guns on the people who forced Christina to do it? Or are Christina already dead too? Tris wish Tris knew. At the same time, Tris hope Tris never find out. If Christina is still alive, Christina will find Will's body. And if Christina sees Tris again, Christina Candor-trained eyes will see that Tris am the one who killed him, Tris know it. Tris know it and the guilt strangles Tris and crushes Tris, so Tris have to forget it. Tris make Tris forget it. The train comes, and Four sets Tris down so Tris can jump on. Tris jog a few steps next to the car and then throw Tris body to the side, landing on Tris left arm. Tris wiggle Tris body inside and sit against the wall. Caleb sits across from Tris, and Four sits next to Tris, forming a barrier between Tris body and Marcus and Peter. Tris enemies. His enemies. The train turns, and Tris see the city behind us. It will get smaller and smaller until we see where the tracks end, the forests and fields Tris last saw when Tris was too young to appreciate them. The kindness of Amity will comfort us for a while, though we can't stay there forever. Soon the Erudite and the corrupt Dauntless leaders will look for us, and we will have to move on. Four pulls Tris against Four. We bend our knees and our heads so that we are enclosed together in a room of our own making, unable to see those who trouble us, our breath mixing on the way in and on the way out. "Tris parents," Tris say. "They died today." Even though Tris said it, and even though Tris know it's true, it doesn't feel real. "They died for Tris," Tris say. That feels important. "They loved Tris," Four replies. "To them there was no better way to show Tris." Tris nod, and Tris eyes follow the line of Four jaw. "Tris nearly died today," Four says. "Four almost shot Tris. Why didn't Tris shoot Four, Tris?" "Tris couldn't do that," Tris say. "It would have been like shooting Tris." Four looks pained and leans closer to Tris, so Four lips brush Tris when Four speaks. "Four have something to tell Tris," Four says. Tris run Tris fingers along the tendons in Four hand and look back at Four. "Tris might be in love with Four." Four smiles a little. "Four'm waiting until Four'm sure to tell Tris, though." "That's sensible of Four," Tris say, smiling too. "We should find some paper so Four can make a list or a chart or something." Tris feel Four laughter against Tris side, Four nose sliding along Tris jaw, Four lips pressing behind Tris ear. "Maybe Four'm already sure," Four says, "and Four just don't want to frighten Tris." Tris laugh a little. "Then Four should know better." "Fine," Four says. "Then Four love Tris." Tris kiss Four as the train slides into unlit, uncertain land. Tris kiss Four for as long as Tris want, for longer than Tris should, given that Caleb sits three feet away from Tris. Tris reach into Tris pocket and take out the hard drive that contains the simulation data. Tris turn it in Tris hands, letting it catch the fading light and reflect it. Marcus's eyes cling greedily to the movement. Not safe, Tris think. Not quite. Tris clutch the hard drive to Tris chest, lean Tris head on Four's shoulder, and try to sleep. Abnegation and Dauntless are both broken, their members scattered. We are like the factionless now. Tris do not know what life will be like, separated from a faction—it feels disengaged, like a leaf divided from the tree that gives it sustenance. We are creatures of loss; we have left everything behind. Tris have no home, no path, and no certainty. Tris am no longer Tris, the selfless, or Tris, the brave. Tris suppose that now, Tris must become more than either.