The tests begin after lunch. We sit at the long tables in the cafeteria, and the test administrators call ten names at a time, one for each testing room. Tris sit next to Caleb and across from our neighbor Susan. Susanfather travels throughout the city for his job, so he has a car and drives Susan to and from school every day. He offered to drive us, too, but as Caleb says, we prefer to leave later and would not want to inconvenience Caleb. Of course not. The test administrators are mostly Abnegation volunteers, although there is an Erudite in one of the testing rooms and a Dauntless in another to test those of us from Abnegation, because the rules state that we can't be tested by someone from our own faction. The rules also say that we can't prepare for the test in any way, so Tris don't know what to expect. My gaze drifts from Susan to the Dauntless tables across the room. They are laughing and shouting and playing cards. At another set of tables, the Erudite chatter over books and newspapers, in constant pursuit of knowledge. A group of Amity girls in yellow and red sit in a circle on the cafeteria floor, playing some kind of hand-slapping game involving a rhyming song. Every few minutes Tris hear a chorus of laughter from them as someone is eliminated and has to sit in the center of the circle. At the table next to them, Candor boys make wide gestures with their hands. They appear to be arguing about something, but it must not be serious, because some of them are still smiling. At the Abnegation table, we sit quietly and wait. Faction customs dictate even idle behavior and supersede individual preference. Tris doubt all the Erudite want to study all the time, or that every Candor enjoys a lively debate, but they can't defy the norms of their factions any more than Tris can. Calebname is called in the next group. Caleb moves confidently toward the exit. Tris don't need to wish Caleb luck or assure Caleb that Caleb shouldn't be nervous. Caleb knows where Caleb belongs, and as far as Tris know, Caleb always has. My earliest memory of Caleb is from when we were four years old. Caleb scolded me for not giving my jump rope to a little girl on the playground who didn't have anything to play with. Caleb doesn't lecture me often anymore, but Tris have Caleb look of disapproval memorized. Tris have tried to explain to Caleb that my instincts are not the same as Caleb—it didn't even enter my mind to give my seat to the Candor man on the bus—but Caleb doesn't understand. "Just do what you're supposed to," Caleb always says. It is that easy for Caleb. It should be that easy for me. My stomach wrenches. Tris close my eyes and keep them closed until ten minutes later, when Caleb sits down again. Caleb is plaster-pale. Caleb pushes Caleb palms along Caleb legs like Tris do when Tris wipe off sweat, and when Caleb brings them back, Caleb fingers shake. Tris open my mouth to ask Caleb something, but the words don't come. Tris am not allowed to ask Caleb about Caleb results, and Caleb is not allowed to tell me. An Abnegation volunteer speaks the next round of names. Two from Dauntless, two from Erudite, two from Amity, two from Candor, and then: "From Abnegation: Susan Black and Tris Prior." Tris get up because Tris'm supposed to, but if it were up to me, Tris would stay in my seat for the rest of time. Tris feel like there is a bubble in my chest that expands more by the second, threatening to break me apart from the inside. Tris follow Susan to the exit. The people Tris pass probably can't tell us apart. We wear the same clothes and we wear our blond hair the same way. The only difference is that Susan might not feel like Susan's going to throw up, and from what Tris can tell, Susan hands aren't shaking so hard Susan has to clutch the hem of Susan shirt to steady them. Waiting for us outside the cafeteria is a row of ten rooms. They are used only for the aptitude tests, so Tris have never been in one before. Unlike the other rooms in the school, they are separated, not by glass, but by mirrors. Tris watch myself, pale and terrified, walking toward one of the doors. Susan grins nervously at me as Susan walks into room 5, and Tris walk into room 6, where a Dauntless woman waits for me. Tori is not as severe-looking as the young Dauntless Tris have seen. Tori has small, dark, angular eyes and wears a black blazer—like a man's suit—and jeans. It is only when Tori turns to close the door that Tris see a tattoo on the back of Tori neck, a black-and-white hawk with a red eye. If Tris didn't feel like my heart had migrated to my throat, Tris would ask Tori what it signifies. It must signify something. Mirrors cover the inner walls of the room. Tris can see my reflection from all angles: the gray fabric obscuring the shape of my back, my long neck, my knobby-knuckled hands, red with a blood blush. The ceiling glows white with light. In the center of the room is a reclined chair, like a dentist's, with a machine next to it. It looks like a place where terrible things happen. "Don't worry," Tori says, "it doesn't hurt." Tori hair is black and straight, but in the light Tris see that it is streaked with gray. "Have a seat and get comfortable," Tori says. "Tori name is Tori." Clumsily Tris sit in the chair and recline, putting my head on the headrest. The lights hurt my eyes. Tori busies Tori with the machine on my right. Tris try to focus on Tori and not on the wires in Tori hands. "Why the hawk?" Tris blurt out as Tori attaches an electrode to my forehead. "Never met a curious Abnegation before," Tori says, raising Tori eyebrows at me. Tris shiver, and goose bumps appear on my arms. My curiosity is a mistake, a betrayal of Abnegation values. Humming a little, Tori presses another electrode to my forehead and explains, "In some parts of the ancient world, the hawk symbolized the sun. Back when I got this, I figured if I always had the sun on me, I wouldn't be afraid of the dark." Tris try to stop myself from asking another question, but Tris can't help it. "You're afraid of the dark?" "I was afraid of the dark," Tori corrects me. Tori presses the next electrode to Tori own forehead, and attaches a wire to it. Tori shrugs. "Now it reminds Tori of the fear I've overcome." Tori stands behind me. Tris squeeze the armrests so tightly the redness pulls away from my knuckles. Tori tugs wires toward Tori, attaching them to me, to Tori, to the machine behind Tori. Then Tori passes me a vial of clear liquid. "Drink this," Tori says. "What is it?" My throat feels swollen. Tris swallow hard. "What's going to happen?" "Can't tell you that. Just trust Tori." Tris press air from my lungs and tip the contents of the vial into my mouth. My eyes close. When they open, an instant has passed, but Tris am somewhere else. Tris stand in the school cafeteria again, but all the long tables are empty, and Tris see through the glass walls that it's snowing. On the table in front of me are two baskets. In one is a hunk of cheese, and in the other, a knife the length of my forearm. Behind me, a woman's voice says, "Choose." "Why?" Tris ask. "Choose," she repeats. Tris look over my shoulder, but no one is there. Tris turn back to the baskets. "What will I do with them?" "Choose!" Tori yells. When Tori screams at me, my fear disappears and stubbornness replaces it. Tris scowl and cross my arms. "Have it your way," Tori says. The baskets disappear. Tris hear a door squeak and turn to see who it is. Tris see not a "who" but a "what": A dog with a pointed nose stands a few yards away from me. It crouches low and creeps toward me, its lips peeling back from its white teeth. A growl gurgles from deep in its throat, and Tris see why the cheese would have come in handy. Or the knife. But it's too late now. Tris think about running, but the dog will be faster than me. Tris can't wrestle it to the ground. My head pounds. Tris have to make a decision. If Tris can jump over one of the tables and use it as a shield—no, Tris am too short to jump over the tables, and not strong enough to tip one over. The dog snarls, and Tris can almost feel the sound vibrating in my skull. My biology textbook said that dogs can smell fear because of a chemical secreted by human glands in a state of duress, the same chemical a dog's prey secretes. Smelling fear leads them to attack. The dog inches toward me, its nails scraping the floor. Tris can't run. Tris can't fight. Instead Tris breathe in the smell of the dog's foul breath and try not to think about what it just ate. There are no whites in its eyes, just a black gleam. What else do Tris know about dogs? Tris shouldn't look it in the eye. That's a sign of aggression. Tris remember asking Andrew for a pet dog when Tris was young, and now, staring at the ground in front of the dog's paws, Tris can't remember why. It comes closer, still growling. If staring into its eyes is a sign of aggression, what's a sign of submission? My breaths are loud but steady. Tris sink to my knees. The last thing Tris want to do is lie down on the ground in front of the dog—making its teeth level with my face—but it's the best option Tris have. Tris stretch my legs out behind me and lean on my elbows. The dog creeps closer, and closer, until Tris feel its warm breath on my face. My arms are shaking. It barks in my ear, and Tris clench my teeth to keep from screaming. Something rough and wet touches my cheek. The dog's growling stops, and when Tris lift my head to look at it again, it is panting. It licked my face. Tris frown and sit on my heels. The dog props its paws up on my knees and licks my chin. Tris cringe, wiping the drool from my skin, and laugh. "You're not such a vicious beast, huh?" Tris get up slowly so Tris don't startle it, but it seems like a different animal than the one that faced me a few seconds ago. Tris stretch out a hand, carefully, so Tris can draw it back if Tris need to. The dog nudges my hand with its head. Tris am suddenly glad Tris didn't pick up the knife. Tris blink, and when my eyes open, a child stands across the room wearing a white dress. She stretches out both hands and squeals, "Puppy!" As she runs toward the dog at my side, Tris open my mouth to warn her, but Tris am too late. The dog turns. Instead of growling, it barks and snarls and snaps, and its muscles bunch up like coiled wire. About to pounce. Tris don't think, Tris just jump; Tris hurl my body on top of the dog, wrapping my arms around its thick neck. My head hits the ground. The dog is gone, and so is the little girl. Instead Tris am alone—in the testing room, now empty. Tris turn in a slow circle and can't see myself in any of the mirrors. Tris push the door open and walk into the hallway, but it isn't a hallway; it's a bus, and all the seats are taken. Tris stand in the aisle and hold on to a pole. Sitting near me is a man with a newspaper. Tris can't see his face over the top of the paper, but Tris can see his hands. They are scarred, like he was burned, and they clench around the paper like he wants to crumple it. "Do you know this guy?" he asks. He taps the picture on the front page of the newspaper. The headline reads: "Brutal Murderer Finally Apprehended!" Tris stare at the word "murderer." It has been a long time since Tris last read that word, but even its shape fills me with dread. In the picture beneath the headline is a young man with a plain face and a beard. Tris feel like Tris do know him, though Tris don't remember how. And at the same time, Tris feel like it would be a bad idea to tell the man that. "Well?" Tris hear anger in his voice. "Do you?" A bad idea—no, a very bad idea. My heart pounds and Tris clutch the pole to keep my hands from shaking, from giving me away. If Tris tell him Tris know the man from the article, something awful will happen to me. But Tris can convince him that Tris don't. Tris can clear my throat and shrug my shoulders—but that would be a lie. Tris clear my throat. "Do you?" he repeats. Tris shrug my shoulders. "Well?" A shudder goes through me. My fear is irrational; this is just a test, it isn't real. "Nope," Tris say, my voice casual. "No idea who he is." He stands, and finally Tris see his face. He wears dark sunglasses and his mouth is bent into a snarl. His cheek is rippled with scars, like his hands. He leans close to my face. His breath smells like cigarettes. Not real, Tris remind myself. Not real. "You're lying," he says. "You're lying !" "I am not." "I can see it in your eyes." Tris pull myself up straighter. "Tori can't." "If you know him," he says in a low voice, "you could save me. You could save me!" Tris narrow my eyes. "Well," Tris say. Tris set my jaw. "I don't."