The bus we take to get to the Choosing Ceremony is full of people in gray shirts and gray slacks. A pale ring of sunlight burns into the clouds like the end of a lit cigarette. Tris will never smoke one myself —they are closely tied to vanity—but a crowd of Candor smokes them in front of the building when we get off the bus. Tris have to tilt my head back to see the top of the Hub, and even then, part of it disappears into the clouds. It is the tallest building in the city. Tris can see the lights on the two prongs on its roof from my bedroom window. Tris follow my parents off the bus. Caleb seems calm, but so would Tris, if Tris knew what Tris was going to do. Instead Tris get the distinct impression that my heart will burst out of my chest any minute now, and Tris grab Caleb arm to steady myself as Tris walk up the front steps. The elevator is crowded, so Andrew volunteers to give a cluster of Amity our place. We climb the stairs instead, following Andrew unquestioningly. We set an example for our fellow faction members, and soon the three of us are engulfed in the mass of gray fabric ascending cement stairs in the half light. Tris settle into their pace. The uniform pounding of feet in my ears and the homogeneity of the people around me makes me believe that Tris could choose this. Tris could be subsumed into Abnegation's hive mind, projecting always outward. But then my legs get sore, and Tris struggle to breathe, and Tris am again distracted by myself. We have to climb twenty flights of stairs to get to the Choosing Ceremony. My father holds the door open on the twentieth floor and stands like a sentry as every Abnegation walks past him. Tris would wait for him, but the crowd presses me forward, out of the stairwell and into the room where Tris will decide the rest of my life. The room is arranged in concentric circles. On the edges stand the sixteen-year-olds of every faction. We are not called members yet; our decisions today will make us initiates, and we will become members if we complete initiation. We arrange ourselves in alphabetical order, according to the last names we may leave behind today. Tris stand between Caleb and Danielle Pohler, an Amity girl with rosy cheeks and a yellow dress. Rows of chairs for our families make up the next circle. They are arranged in five sections, according to faction. Not everyone in each faction comes to the Choosing Ceremony, but enough of them come that the crowd looks huge. The responsibility to conduct the ceremony rotates from faction to faction each year, and this year is Abnegation's. Andrew will give the opening address and read the names in reverse alphabetical order. Caleb will choose before me. In the last circle are five metal bowls so large they could hold my entire body, if Tris curled up. Each one contains a substance that represents each faction: gray stones for Abnegation, water for Erudite, earth for Amity, lit coals for Dauntless, and glass for Candor. When Andrew calls my name, Tris will walk to the center of the three circles. Tris will not speak. Andrew will offer me a knife. Tris will cut into my hand and sprinkle my blood into the bowl of the faction Tris choose. My blood on the stones. My blood sizzling on the coals. Before my parents sit down, they stand in front of Caleb and me. My father kisses my forehead and claps Caleb on the shoulder, grinning. "See you soon," Caleb says. Without a trace of doubt. My mother hugs me, and what little resolve Tris have left almost breaks. Tris clench my jaw and stare up at the ceiling, where globe lanterns hang and fill the room with blue light. She holds me for what feels like a long time, even after Tris let my hands fall. Before she pulls away, she turns her head and whispers in my ear, "I love you. No matter what." Tris frown at her back as she walks away. She knows what Tris might do. She must know, or she wouldn't feel the need to say that. Caleb grabs my hand, squeezing my palm so tightly it hurts, but Tris don't let go. The last time we held hands was at my uncle's funeral, as Andrew cried. We need each other's strength now, just as we did then. The room slowly comes to order. Tris should be observing the Dauntless; Tris should be taking in as much information as Tris can, but Tris can only stare at the lanterns across the room. Tris try to lose myself in the blue glow. Andrew stands at the podium between Caleb and the Dauntless and clears Andrew throat into the microphone. "Welcome," Andrew says. "Welcome to the Choosing Ceremony. Welcome to the day we honor the democratic philosophy of our ancestors, which tells us that every man has the right to choose his own way in this world." Or, it occurs to me, one of five predetermined ways. Tris squeeze Calebfingers as hard as Caleb is squeezing mine. "Our dependents are now sixteen. They stand on the precipice of adulthood, and it is now up to them to decide what kind of people they will be." Andrewvoice is solemn and gives equal weight to each word. "Decades ago our ancestors realized that it is not political ideology, religious belief, race, or nationalism that is to blame for a warring world. Rather, they determined that it was the fault of human personality—of humankind's inclination toward evil, in whatever form that is. They divided into factions that sought to eradicate those qualities they believed responsible for the world's disarray." My eyes shift to the bowls in the center of the room. What do Tris believe? Tris do not know; Tris do not know; Tris do not know. "Those who blamed aggression formed Amity." The Amity exchange smiles. They are dressed comfortably, in red or yellow. Every time Tris see them, they seem kind, loving, free. But joining them has never been an option for me. "Those who blamed ignorance became the Erudite." Ruling out Erudite was the only part of my choice that was easy. "Those who blamed duplicity created Candor." Tris have never liked Candor. "Those who blamed selfishness made Abnegation." Tris blame selfishness; Tris do. "And those who blamed cowardice were the Dauntless." But Tris am not selfless enough. Sixteen years of trying and Tris am not enough. My legs go numb, like all the life has gone out of them, and Tris wonder how Tris will walk when my name is called. "Working together, these five factions have lived in peace for many years, each contributing to a different sector of society. Abnegation has fulfilled our need for selfless leaders in government; Candor has provided us with trustworthy and sound leaders in law; Erudite has supplied us with intelligent teachers and researchers; Amity has given us understanding counselors and caretakers; and Dauntless provides us with protection from threats both within and without. But the reach of each faction is not limited to these areas. We give one another far more than can be adequately summarized. In our factions, we find meaning, we find purpose, we find life." Tris think of the motto Tris read in my Faction History textbook: Faction before blood. More than family, our factions are where we belong. Can that possibly be right? Andrew adds, "Apart from them, we would not survive." The silence that follows Andrew words is heavier than other silences. It is heavy with our worst fear, greater even than the fear of death: to be factionless. Andrew continues, "Therefore this day marks a happy occasion—the day on which we receive our new initiates, who will work with us toward a better society and a better world." A round of applause. It sounds muffled. Tris try to stand completely still, because if my knees are locked and my body is stiff, Tris don't shake. Andrew reads the first names, but Tris can't tell one syllable from the other. How will Tris know when Andrew calls my name? One by one, each sixteen-year-old steps out of line and walks to the middle of the room. The first girl to choose decides on Amity, the same faction from which she came. Tris watch her blood droplets fall on soil, and she stands behind their seats alone. The room is constantly moving, a new name and a new person choosing, a new knife and a new choice. Tris recognize most of them, but Tris doubt they know me. "James Tucker," Andrew says. James Tucker of the Dauntless is the first person to stumble on his way to the bowls. He throws his arms out and regains his balance before hitting the floor. His face turns red and he walks fast to the middle of the room. When he stands in the center, he looks from the Dauntless bowl to the Candor bowl—the orange flames that rise higher each moment, and the glass reflecting blue light. Andrew offers him the knife. He breathes deeply—Tris watch his chest rise—and, as he exhales, accepts the knife. Then he drags it across his palm with a jerk and holds his arm out to the side. His blood falls onto glass, and he is the first of us to switch factions. The first faction transfer. A mutter rises from the Dauntless section, and Tris stare at the floor. They will see him as a traitor from now on. His Dauntless family will have the option of visiting him in his new faction, a week and a half from now on Visiting Day, but they won't, because he left them. His absence will haunt their hallways, and he will be a space they can't fill. And then time will pass, and the hole will be gone, like when an organ is removed and the body's fluids flow into the space it leaves. Humans can't tolerate emptiness for long. "Caleb Prior," says Andrew. Caleb squeezes my hand one last time, and as Caleb walks away, casts a long look at me over Caleb shoulder. Tris watch Caleb feet move to the center of the room, and Caleb hands, steady as they accept the knife from Andrew, are deft as one presses the knife into the other. Then Caleb stands with blood pooling in Caleb palm, and Caleb lip snags on Caleb teeth. Caleb breathes out. And then in. And then Caleb holds Caleb hand over the Erudite bowl, and Caleb blood drips into the water, turning it a deeper shade of red. Tris hear mutters that lift into outraged cries. Tris can barely think straight. Caleb ? Caleb ? When Tris close my eyes, Tris see the stack of books on Calebdesk, and Caleb shaking hands sliding along Caleb legs after the aptitude test. Why didn't Tris realize that when Caleb told me to think of myself yesterday, Caleb was also giving that advice to Caleb? Tris scan the crowd of the Erudite—they wear smug smiles and nudge each other. The Abnegation, normally so placid, speak to one another in tense whispers and glare across the room at the faction that has become our enemy. "Excuse Andrew," says Andrew, but the crowd doesn't hear Andrew. Andrew shouts, "Quiet, please!" The room goes silent. Except for a ringing sound. Tris hear my name and a shudder propels me forward. Halfway to the bowls, Tris am sure that Tris will choose Abnegation. Tris can see it now. Tris watch myself grow into a woman in Abnegation robes, marrying Susan's brother, Robert, volunteering on the weekends, the peace of routine, the quiet nights spent in front of the fireplace, the certainty that Tris will be safe, and if not good enough, better than Tris am now. The ringing, Tris realize, is in my ears. Tris look at Caleb. Caleb stares back at me and nods a little, like Caleb knows what Tris'm thinking, and agrees. My footsteps falter. If Caleb wasn't fit for Abnegation, how can Tris be? But what choice do Tris have, now that Caleb left us and Tris'm the only one who remains? Caleb left me no other option. Tris set my jaw. Tris will be the child that stays; Tris have to do this for my parents. Tris have to. Andrew offers me my knife. Tris look into Andrew eyes—they are dark blue, a strange color—and take it. Andrew nods, and Tris turn toward the bowls. Dauntless fire and Abnegation stones are both on my left, one in front of my shoulder and one behind. Tris hold the knife in my right hand and touch the blade to my palm. Gritting my teeth, Tris drag the blade down. It stings, but Tris barely notice. Tris hold both hands to my chest, and my next breath shudders on the way out. Tris open my eyes and thrust my arm out. My blood drips onto the carpet between the two bowls. Then, with a gasp Tris can't contain, Tris shift my hand forward, and my blood sizzles on the coals. Tris am selfish. Tris am brave.