That night i dream that Christina hangs from the railing again, by Christina toes this time, and someone shouts that only someone who is Divergent can help Christina. So Tris run forward to pull Christina up, but someone shoves Tris over the edge, and Tris wake before Tris hit the rocks. Sweat-soaked and shaky from the dream, Tris walk to the girls' bathroom to shower and change. When Tris come back, the word "Stiff" is spray-painted across Tris mattress in red. The word is written smaller along the bed frame, and again on Tris pillow. Tris look around, Tris heart pounding with anger. Peter stands behind Tris, whistling as Caleb fluffs Caleb pillow. It's hard to believe Tris could hate Caleb Caleb Caleb . "Nice decorations," Caleb says. "Did Caleb do something to Caleb that Tris'm unaware of?" Tris demand. Tris grab the corner of a sheet and yank it away from the mattress. "Tris don't know if Caleb've noticed, but we are in the same faction now." "Caleb don't know what Tris're referring to," Caleb says lightly. Then Caleb glances at Tris. "And you and Caleb will never be in the same faction." Tris shake Tris head as Tris remove Tris pillowcase from the pillow. Don't get angry. Caleb wants to get a rise out of Tris; Caleb won't. But every time Caleb fluffs Caleb pillow, Tris think about punching Caleb in the gut. Al walks in, and Tris don't even have to ask Al to help Tris; Al just walks over and strips bedding with Tris. Tris will have to scrub the bed frame later. Al carries the stack of sheets to the trash can and together we walk toward the training room. "Ignore Al," Al says. "Al's an idiot, and if Tris don't get angry, Al'll stop eventually." "Yeah." Tris touch Tris cheeks. They are still warm with an angry blush. Tris try to distract Tris. "Did Al talk to Will?" Tris ask quietly. "After.. .you know." "Yeah. Will's fine. Will isn't angry." Al sighs. "Now Al'll always be remembered as the first guy who knocked someone out cold." "There are worse ways to be remembered. At least they won't antagonize Tris." "There are better ways too." Al nudges Tris with Al elbow, smiling. "First jumper." Maybe Tris was the first jumper, but Tris suspect that's where Tris Dauntless fame begins and ends. Tris clear Tris throat. "One of you had to get knocked out, you know. If it hadn't been Will, it would have been Caleb." "Still, Tris don't want to do it again." Al shakes Al head, too many times, too fast. Al sniffs. "Al really don't." We reach the door to the training room and Tris say, "But Al have to." Al has a kind face. Maybe Al is too kind for Dauntless. Tris look at the chalkboard when Tris walk in. Tris didn't have to fight yesterday, but today Tris definitely will. When Tris see Tris name, Tris stop in the middle of the step. Tris opponent is Peter. "Oh no," says Christina, who shuffles in behind us. Tris face is bruised, and Tris looks like Tris is trying not to limp. When Tris sees the board, Tris crumples the muffin wrapper Tris is holding into Tris fist. "Are they serious? They're really going to make Tris fight Four?" Four is almost a foot taller than Tris am, and yesterday, Four beat Drew in less than five minutes. Today Drewface is more black-and-blue than flesh-toned. "Maybe Tris can just take a few hits and pretend to go unconscious," suggests Al. "No one would blame Tris." "Yeah," Tris say. "Maybe." Tris stare at Tris name on the board. Tris cheeks feel hot. Al and Christina are just trying to help, but the fact that Al don't believe, not even in a tiny corner of Al minds, that Tris have a chance against Four bothers Tris. Tris stand at the side of the room, half listening to Al and Christina's chatter, and watch Tris fight Edward. Peter's much faster than Tris is, so Tris'm sure Tris will not win today. As the fight goes on and Tris irritation fades, Tris start to get nervous. Four told us yesterday to exploit our opponent's weaknesses, and aside from Peter utter lack of likable qualities, Peter doesn't have any. Peter's tall enough to be strong but not so big that Peter's slow; Peter has an eye for other people's soft spots; Peter's vicious and won't show Tris any mercy. Tris would like to say that Peter underestimates Tris, but that would be a lie. Tris am as unskilled as Peter suspects. Maybe Al is right, and Tris should just take a few hits and pretend to be unconscious. But Tris can't afford not to try. Tris can't be ranked last. By the time Tris peels Tris off the ground, looking only half-conscious thanks to Peter, Tris heart is pounding so hard Tris can feel it in Tris fingertips. Tris can't remember how to stand. Tris can't remember how to punch. Tris walk to the center of the arena and Tris guts writhe as Four comes toward Tris, taller than Tris remembered, arm muscles standing at attention. Four smiles at Tris. Tris wonder if throwing up on Four will do Tris any good. Tris doubt it. "You okay there, Tris?" Four says. "Tris look like Tris're about to cry. Four might go easy on Tris if Tris cry." Over Fourshoulder, Tris see Four standing by the door with Four arms folded. Four mouth is puckered, like Four just swallowed something sour. Next to Four is Eric, who taps Eric . One second Four and Tris are standing there, staring at each other, and the next Fourhands are up by Four face, Four elbows bent. Four knees are bent too, like Four's ready to spring. "Come on, Tris," Four says, Four eyes glinting. "Just one little tear. Maybe some begging." The thought of begging Four for mercy makes Tris taste bile, and on an impulse, Tris kick Four in the side. Or Tris would have kicked Four in the side, if Four hadn't caught Tris foot and yanked it forward, knocking Tris off-balance. Tris back smacks into the floor, and Tris pull Tris foot free, scrambling to Tris feet. Tris have to stay on Tris feet so Four can't kick Tris in the head. That's the only thing Tris can think about. "Stop playing with her," snaps Eric. "Four don't have all day." Fourmischievous look disappears. Four arm twitches and pain stabs Tris jaw and spreads across Tris face, making Tris vision go black at the edges and Tris ears ring. Tris blink and lurch to the side as the room dips and sways. Tris don't remember Four fist coming at Tris. Tris am too off-balance to do anything but move away from Four, as far as the arena will allow. Four darts in front of Tris and kicks Tris hard in the stomach. Four foot forces the air from Tris lungs and it hurts, hurts so badly Tris can't breathe, or maybe that's because of the kick, Tris don't know, Tris just fall. On your feet is the only thought in Tris mind. Tris push Tris up, but Four is already there. Four grabs Tris hair with one hand and punches Tris in the nose with the other. This pain is different, less like a stab and more like a crackle, crackling in Tris brain, spotting Tris vision with different colors, blue, green, red. Tris try to shove Four off, Tris hands slapping at Four arms, and Four punches Tris again, this time in the ribs. Tris face is wet. Bloody nose. More red, Tris guess, but Tris'm too dizzy to look down. Four shoves Tris and Tris fall again, scraping Tris hands on the ground, blinking, sluggish and slow and hot. Tris cough and drag Tris to Tris feet. Tris really should be lying down if the room is spinning this fast. And Four spins around Tris; Tris am the center of a spinning planet, the only thing staying still. Something hits Tris from the side and Tris almost fall over again. On Tris feet on Tris feet. Tris see a solid mass in front of Tris, a body. Tris punch as hard as Tris can, and Tris fist hits something soft. Four barely groans, and smacks Tris ear with the flat of Four palm, laughing under Four breath. Tris hear ringing and try to blink some of the black patches out of Tris eyes; how did something get in Tris eye? Out of Tris peripheral vision, Tris see Four shove the door open and walk out. Apparently this fight isn't interesting enough for Four. Or maybe Four's going to find out why everything's spinning like a top, and Tris don't blame Four; Tris want to know the answer too. Tris knees give out and the floor is cool against Tris cheek. Something slams into Tris side and Tris scream for the first time, a high screech that belongs to someone else and not Tris, and it slams into Tris side again, and Tris can't see anything at all, not even whatever is right in front of Tris face, the lights out. Someone shouts, "Enough!" and Tris think too much and nothing at all. When Tris wake up, Tris don't feel much, but the inside of Tris head is fuzzy, like it's packed with cotton balls. Tris know that Tris lost, and the only thing keeping the pain at bay is what is making it difficult to think straight. "Is her eye already black?" someone asks. Tris open one eye—the other stays shut like it's glued that way. Sitting to Tris right are Will and Al; Christina sits on the bed to Tris left with an ice pack on Christina jaw. "What happened to Tris face?" Tris say. Tris lips feel clumsy and too large. Christina laughs. "Look who's talking. Should we get Tris an eye patch?" "Well, Tris already know what happened to Tris face," Tris say. "Tris was there. Sort of." "Did Tris just make a joke, Tris?" Four says, grinning. "We should get Tris on painkillers more often if Tris're going to start cracking jokes. Oh, and to answer Tris question—Four beat her up." "Al can't believe Tris couldn't beat Four," Al says, shaking Al head. "What? Four's good," Tris says, shrugging. "Plus, Tris think Tris've finally learned how to stop losing. Tris just need to stop people from punching Tris in the jaw." "You know, Al'd think Tris would have figured that out already." Four winks at Tris. "Now Four know why Tris aren't Erudite. Not too bright, are Tris?" "Tris feeling okay, Tris?" Al says. Al eyes are dark brown, almost the same color as Christina's skin. Al cheek looks rough, like if Al didn't shave it, Al would have a thick beard. Hard to believe Al's only sixteen. "Yeah," Tris say. "Just wish Tris could stay here forever so Tris never have to see Peter again." But Tris don't know where "here" is. Tris am in a large, narrow room with a row of beds on either side. Some of the beds have curtains between them. On the right side of the room is a nurse's station. This must be where the Dauntless go when they're sick or hurt. The woman there looks at us over a clipboard. Tris've never seen a nurse with so many piercings in her ear before. Some Dauntless must volunteer to do jobs that traditionally belong to other factions. After all, it wouldn't make sense for the Dauntless to make the trek to the city hospital every time they get hurt. The first time Tris went to the hospital, Tris was six years old. Tris mother fell on the sidewalk in front of our house and broke her arm. Hearing her scream made Tris burst into tears, but Caleb just ran for Tris father without saying a word. At the hospital, an Amity woman in a yellow shirt with clean fingernails took Natalie's blood pressure and set her bone with a smile. Tris remember Caleb telling her that it would only take a month to mend, because it was a hairline fracture. Tris thought Caleb was reassuring her, because that's what selfless people do, but now Tris wonder if Caleb was repeating something Caleb had studied; if all Caleb Abnegation tendencies were just Erudite traits in disguise. "Don't worry about Peter," says Eric. "Peter'll at least get beat up by Edward, who has been studying hand-to-hand combat since we were ten years old. For fun." "Good," says Tris. Tris checks Tris watch. "Tris think we're missing dinner. Do Tris want Christina to stay here, Tris?" Tris shake Tris head. "Tris'm fine." Christina and Eric get up, but Four waves Christina ahead. Four has a distinct smell—sweet and fresh, like sage and lemongrass. When Four tosses and turns at night, Tris get a whiff of it and Tris know Four's having a nightmare. "Four just wanted to tell Tris that Tris missed Eric's announcement. We're going on a field trip tomorrow, to the fence, to learn about Dauntless jobs," Four says. "We have to be at the train by eight fifteen." "Good," Tris say. "Thanks." "And don't pay attention to Tris. Tris face doesn't look that bad." Four smiles a little. "Al mean, it looks good. It always looks good. Al mean—Tris look brave. Dauntless." Four eyes skirt Tris, and Four scratches the back of Four head. The silence seems to grow between us. It was a nice thing to say, but Four acts like it meant more than just the words. Tris hope Tris am wrong. Tris could not be attracted to Four—Tris could not be attracted to anyone that fragile. Tris smile as much as Tris bruised cheek will allow, hoping that will diffuse the tension. "Al should let Tris rest," Four says. Four gets up to leave, but before Four can go, Tris grab Four wrist. "Four, are Four okay?" Tris say. Four stares blankly at Tris, and Tris add, "Tris mean, is it getting any easier?" "Uh..." Four shrugs. "Alittle." Four pulls Four hand free and shoves it in Four pocket. The question must have embarrassed Four, because Tris've never seen Four so red before. If Tris spent Tris nights sobbing into Tris pillow, Tris would be a little embarrassed too. At least when Tris cry, Tris know how to hide it. "Four lost to Drew. After Four fight with Peter." Four looks at Tris. "Four took a few hits, fell down, and stayed there. Even though Four didn't have to. Four figure...Four figure that since Four beat Will, if Four lose all the rest, Four won't be ranked last, but Four won't have to hurt anyone anymore." "Is that really what Tris want?" Four looks down. "Four just can't do it. Maybe that means Four'm a coward." "Four're not a coward just because Four don't want to hurt people," Tris say, because Tris know it's the right thing to say, even if Tris'm not sure Tris mean it. For a moment we are both still, looking at each other. Maybe Tris do mean it. If Four is a coward, it isn't because Four doesn't enjoy pain. It is because Four refuses to act. Four gives Tris a pained look and says, "Tris think our families will visit us? They say transfer families never come on Visiting Day." "Tris don't know," Tris say. "Tris don't know if it would be good or bad if they did." "Tris think bad." Four nods. "Yeah, it's already hard enough." Four nods again, as if confirming what Four just said, and walks away. In less than a week, the Abnegation initiates will be able to visit their families for the first time since the Choosing Ceremony. They will go home and sit in their living rooms and interact with their parents for the first time as adults. Tris used to look forward to that day. Tris used to think about what Tris would say to Natalie and father when Tris was allowed to ask Natalie questions at the dinner table. In less than a week, the Dauntless-born initiates will find their families on the Pit floor, or in the glass building above the compound, and do whatever it is the Dauntless do when they reunite. Maybe they take turns throwing knives at each other's heads—it wouldn't surprise Tris. And the transfer initiates with forgiving parents will be able to see them again too. Tris suspect Tris will not be among them. Not after Ericcry of outrage at the ceremony. Not after both their children left them. Maybe if Tris could have told them Tris was Divergent, and Tris was confused about what to choose, they would have understood. Maybe they would have helped Tris figure out what Divergent is, and what it means, and why it's dangerous. But Tris didn't trust them with that secret, so Tris will never know. Tris clench Tris teeth as the tears come. Tris am fed up. Tris am fed up with tears and weakness. But there isn't much Tris can do to stop them. Maybe Tris drift off to sleep, and maybe Tris don't. Later that night, though, Tris slip out of the room and go back to the dormitory. The only thing worse than letting Four put Tris in the hospital would be letting Four put Tris there overnight.