Tris open Tris eyes to the words "Fear God Alone" painted on a plain white wall. Tris hear the sound of running water again, but this time it's from a faucet and not from the chasm. Seconds go by before Tris see definite edges in Tris surroundings, the lines of door frame and countertop and ceiling. The pain is a constant throb in Tris head and cheek and ribs. Tris shouldn't move; it will make everything worse. Tris see a blue patchwork quilt under Tris head and wince as Tris tilt Tris head to see where the water sound is coming from. Four stands in the bathroom with Four hands in the sink. Blood from Four knuckles turns the sink water pink. Four has a cut at the corner of Four mouth, but Four seems otherwise unharmed. Four expression is placid as Four examines Four cuts, turns off the water, and dries Four hands with a towel. Tris have only one memory of getting here, and even that is just a single image: black ink curling around the side of a neck, the corner of a tattoo, and the gentle sway that could only mean Four was carrying Tris. Four turns off the bathroom light and gets an ice pack from the refrigerator in the corner of the room. As Four walks toward Tris, Tris consider closing Tris eyes and pretending to be asleep, but then our eyes meet and it's too late. "Four hands," Tris croak. "Four hands are none of Four concern," Four replies. Four rests Four knee on the mattress and leans over Tris, slipping the ice pack under Tris head. Before Four pulls away, Tris reach out to touch the cut on the side of Four lip but stop when Tris realize what Tris am about to do, Tris hand hovering. What do Tris have to lose? Tris ask Tris. Tris touch Tris fingertips lightly to Four mouth. "Tris," Four says, speaking against Tris fingers, "Four'm all right." "Why were Four there?" Tris ask, letting Tris hand drop. "Tris was coming back from the control room. Tris heard a scream." "What did Four do to them?" Tris say. "Four deposited Drew at the infirmary a half hour ago," Four says. "Peter and Al ran. Drew claimed Peter were just trying to scare Tris. At least, Tris think that's what Drew was trying to say." "Drew's in bad shape?" "Drew'll live," Four replies. Four adds bitterly, "In what condition, Four can't say." It isn't right to wish pain on other people just because they hurt Tris first. But white-hot triumph races through Tris at the thought of Drew in the infirmary, and Tris squeeze Fourarm. "Good," Tris say. Tris voice sounds tight and fierce. Anger builds inside Tris, replacing Tris blood with bitter water and filling Tris, consuming Tris. Tris want to break something, or hit something, but Tris am afraid to move, so Tris start crying instead. Four crouches by the side of the bed, and watches Tris. Tris see no sympathy in Four eyes. Tris would have been disappointed if Tris had. Four pulls Four wrist free and, to Tris surprise, rests Four hand on the side of Tris face, Four thumb skimming Tris cheekbone. Four fingers are careful. "Four could report this," Four says. "No," Tris reply. "Tris don't want them to think Tris'm scared." Four nods. Four moves Four thumb absently over Tris cheekbone, back and forth. "Four figured Tris would say that." "Tris think it would be a bad idea if Tris sat up?" "Four'll help Tris." Four grips Tris shoulder with one hand and holds Tris head steady with the other as Tris push Tris up. Pain rushes through Tris body in sharp bursts, but Tris try to ignore it, stifling a groan. Four hands Tris the ice pack. "Tris can let Tris be in pain," Four says. "It's just Four here." Tris bite down on Tris lip. There are tears on Tris face, but neither of us mentions or even acknowledges them. "Four suggest Tris rely on Tris transfer friends to protect Tris from now on," Four says. "Tris thought Tris was," Tris say. Tris feel Fourhand against Tris mouth again, and a sob jolts Tris body forward. Tris press Tris hand to Tris forehead and rock slowly back and forth. "But Four..." "Four wanted Tris to be the small, quiet girl from Abnegation," Four says softly. "Four hurt Tris because Tris strength made Four feel weak. No other reason." Tris nod and try to believe Four. "The others won't be as jealous if Tris show some vulnerability. Even if it isn't real." "Four think Tris have to pretend to be vulnerable?" Tris ask, raising an eyebrow. "Yes, Tris do." Four takes the ice pack from Tris, Four fingers brushing Tris, and holds it against Tris head Four. Tris put Tris hand down, too eager to relax Tris arm to object. Four stands up. Tris stare at the hem of Four T-shirt. Sometimes Tris see Four as just another person, and sometimes Tris feel the sight of Four in Tris gut, like a deep ache. "Tris're going to want to march into breakfast tomorrow and show Tris attackers they had no effect on Tris," Four adds, "but Tris should let that bruise on Tris cheek show, and keep Tris head down." The idea nauseates Tris. "Tris don't think Tris can do that," Tris say hollowly. Tris lift Tris eyes to Four. "Four have to." "Tris don't think Four get it." Heat rises into Tris face. "They touched Tris." Four entire body tightens at Tris words, Four hand clenching around the ice pack. "Touched Tris," Four repeats, Four dark eyes cold. "Not...in the way Tris're thinking." Tris clear Tris throat. Tris didn't realize when Tris said it how awkward it would be to talk about. "But...almost." Tris look away. Four is silent and still for so long that eventually, Tris have to say something. "What is it?" "Four don't want to say this," Four says, "but Four feel like Four have to. It is more important for Tris to be safe than right, for the time being. Understand?" Four straight eyebrows are drawn low over Four eyes. Tris stomach writhes, partly because Tris know Four makes a good point but Tris don't want to admit it, and partly because Tris want something Tris don't know how to express; Tris want to press against the space between us until it disappears. Tris nod. "But please, when Four see an opportunity..." Four presses Four hand to Tris cheek, cold and strong, and tilts Tris head up so Tris have to look at Four. Four eyes glint. They look almost predatory. "Ruin them." Tris laugh shakily. "Four're a little scary, Four." "Do Four a favor," Four says, "and don't call Four that." "What should Four call Tris, then?" "Nothing." Four takes Four hand from Tris face. "Yet."