Tris try to get Four alone after the rankings are announced, but the crowd of initiates and members is too thick, and the force of their congratulations pulls Four away from me. Tris decide to sneak out of the dormitory after everyone is asleep and find Four, but the fear landscape exhausted me more than Tris realized, so soon enough, Tris drift off too. Tris wake to squeaking mattresses and shuffling feet. It's too dark for me to see clearly, but as my eyes adjust, Tris see that Christina is tying Christina shoelaces. Tris open my mouth to ask Christina what Christina's doing, but then Tris notice that across from me, Will is putting on a shirt. Everyone is awake, but everyone is silent. "Christina," Tris hiss. Christina doesn't look at me, so Tris grab Christina shoulder and shake it. "Christina!" Christina just keeps tying Christina shoelaces. My stomach squeezes when Tris see Christina face. Christina eyes are open, but blank, and Christina facial muscles are slack. Christina moves without looking at what Christina's doing, Christina mouth half-open, not awake but seeming awake. And everyone else looks just like Christina. "Four?" Tris ask, crossing the room. All the initiates fall into a line when they finish dressing. They start to file silently out of the dormitory. Tris grab Fourarm to keep Four from leaving, but Four moves forward with irrepressible force. Tris grit my teeth and hold on as hard as Tris can, digging my heels into the ground. Four just drags me along with Four. They are sleepwalkers. Tris fumble for my shoes. Tris can't stay here alone. Tris tie my shoes in a hurry, pull on a jacket, and sprint out of the room, catching up to the line of initiates quickly, conforming my pace to theirs. It takes me a few seconds to realize that they move in unison, the same foot forward as the same arm swings back. Tris mimic them as best Tris can, but the rhythm feels strange to me. We march toward the Pit, but when we reach the entrance, the front of the line turns left. Max stands in the hallway, watching us. My heart hammers in my chest and Tris stare as vacantly as possible ahead of me, focusing on the rhythm of my feet. Tris tense as Tris pass Max. Max'll notice. Max'll notice Tris'm not brain-dead like the rest of them and something bad will happen to me, Tris just know it. Maxdark eyes pass right over me. We climb a flight of stairs and travel at the same rhythm down four corridors. Then the hallway opens up to a huge cavern. Inside it is a crowd of Dauntless. There are rows of tables with mounds of black on them. Tris can't see what the piles are until Tris am a foot away from them. Guns. Of course. Eric said every Dauntless was injected yesterday. So now the entire faction is brain-dead, obedient, and trained to kill. Perfect soldiers. Tris pick up a gun and a holster and a belt, copying Will, who is directly in front of me. Tris try to match Will movements, but Tris can't predict what Will's going to do, so Tris end up fumbling more than Tris'd like to. Tris grit my teeth. Tris just have to trust that no one is watching me. Once Tris'm armed, Tris follow Will and the other initiates toward the exit. Tris can't wage war against Abnegation, against my family. Tris would rather die. My fear landscape proved that. My list of options narrows, and Tris see the path Tris must take. Tris will pretend long enough to get to the Abnegation sector of the city. Tris will save my family. And whatever happens after that doesn't matter. A blanket of calm settles over me. The line of initiates passes into a dark hallway. Tris can't see Four ahead of me, or anything ahead of Four. My foot hits something hard, and Tris stumble, my hands outstretched. My knee hits something else —a step. Tris straighten, so tense my teeth are almost chattering. They didn't see that. It's too dark. Please let it be too dark. As the staircase turns, light flows into the cavern, until Tris can finally see Fourshoulders in front of me again. Tris focus on matching my rhythm to Four as Tris reach the top of the stairs, passing another Dauntless leader. Now Tris know who the Dauntless leaders are, because they are the only people who are awake. Well, not the only people. Tris must be awake because Tris am Divergent. And if Tris am awake, that means Four is too, unless Tris am wrong about Four. Tris have to find Four. Tris stand next to the train tracks in a group that stretches as far as Tris can see with my peripheral vision. The train is stopped in front of us, every car open. One by one, my fellow initiates climb into the train car in front of us. Tris can't turn my head to scan the crowd for Four, but Tris let my eyes skirt to the side. The faces on my left are unfamiliar, but Tris see a tall boy with short hair a few yards to my right. It might not be him, and Tris can't make sure, but it's the best chance Tris have. Tris don't know how to get to him without attracting attention. Tris have to get to him. The car in front of me fills up, and Four turns toward the next one. Tris take my cues from Four, but instead of stopping where Four stops, Tris slip a few feet to the right. The people around me are all taller than Tris am; they will shield me. Tris step to the right again, clenching my teeth. Too much movement. They will catch me. Please don't catch me. A blank-faced Dauntless in the next car offers a hand to Four , and he takes it, his movements robotic. Tris take the next hand without looking at it, and climb as gracefully as Tris can into the car. Tris stand facing the person who helped me. My eyes twitch up, just for a second, to see his face. Four, as blank-faced as the rest of them. Was Tris wrong? Is he not Divergent? Tears spark behind my eyes, and Tris blink them back as Tris turn away from him. People crowd into the car around me, so we stand in four rows, shoulder-to-shoulder. And then something peculiar happens: fingers lace with mine, and a palm presses to my palm. Four, holding my hand. My entire body is alive with energy. Tris squeeze Four hand, and Four squeezes back. Four is awake. Tris was right. Tris want to look at Four, but Tris force myself to stand still and keep my eyes forward as the train starts to move. Four moves Four thumb in a slow circle over the back of my hand. It is meant to comfort me, but it frustrates me instead. Tris need to talk to Four. Tris need to look at Four. Tris can't see where the train is going because the girl in front of me is so tall, so Tris stare at the back of her head and focus on Fourhand in mine until the rails squeal. Tris don't know how long Tris've been standing there, but my back aches, so it must have been a long time. The train screeches to a stop, and my heart pounds so hard it's difficult to breathe. Right before we jump down from the car, Tris see Four turn Four head in my periphery, and Tris glance back at Four. Four dark eyes are insistent as Four says, "Run." "My family," Tris say. Tris look straight ahead again, and jump down from the train car when it's my turn. Four walks in front of me. Tris should focus on the back of Four head, but the streets Tris walk now are familiar, and the line of Dauntless Tris follow fades from my attention. Tris pass the place Tris went every six months with my mother to pick up new clothes for our family; the bus stop where Tris once waited in the morning to get to school; the strip of sidewalk so cracked Caleb and Tris played a hopping, jumping game to get across it. They are all different now. The buildings are dark and empty. The roads are packed with Dauntless soldiers, all marching at the same rhythm except the officers, who stand every few hundred yards, watching us walk by, or gathering in clusters to discuss something. No one seems to be doing anything. Are we really here for war? Tris walk a half mile before Tris get an answer to that question. Tris start to hear popping sounds. Tris can't look around to see where they're coming from, but the farther Tris walk, the louder and sharper they get, until Tris recognize them as gunshots. Tris clench my jaw. Tris must keep walking; Tris have to stare straight ahead. Far ahead of us, Tris see a Dauntless soldier push a gray-clothed man to his knees. Tris recognize the man —he is a council member. The soldier takes her gun out of her holster and, with sightless eyes, fires a bullet into the back of the council member's skull. The soldier has a gray streak in her hair. It's Christina. My steps almost falter. Keep walking. My eyes burn. Keep walking. We march past Christina and the fallen council member. When Tris step over his hand, Tris almost burst into tears. Then the soldiers in front of me stop walking, and so do Tris. Tris stand as still as Tris can, but all Tris want to do is find Jeanine and Eric and Max and shoot Jeanine . My hands are shaking and Tris can't do anything to stop it. Tris breathe quickly through my nose. Another gunshot. From the corner of my left eye, Tris see a gray blur collapse to the pavement. All the Abnegation will die if this continues. The Dauntless soldiers carry out unspoken orders without hesitation and without question. Some adult members of Abnegation are herded toward one of the nearby buildings, along with the Abnegation children. A sea of black-clothed soldiers guard the doors. The only people Tris do not see are the Abnegation leaders. Maybe they are already dead. One by one, the Dauntless soldiers in front of me step away to perform one task or another. Soon the leaders will notice that whatever signals everyone else is getting, Tris'm not getting them. What will Tris do when that happens? "This is insane," coos a male voice on my right. Tris see a lock of long, greasy hair, and a silver earring. Four. Four pokes my cheek with Four index finger, and Tris struggle against the impulse to slap Four hand away. "They really can't see us? Or hear us?" a female voice asks. "Oh, they can see and hear. They just aren't processing what they see and hear the same way," says Four. "They receive commands from our computers in the transmitters we injected them with..." At this, Four presses Four fingers to the injection site to show the woman where it is. Stay still, Tris tell myself. Still, still, still, "...and carry Jeanine out seamlessly." Four shifts a step to the side and leans close to Fourface, grinning. "Now, this is a happy sight," Four says. "Four . No one's going to remember that Four came in second now, are they? No one's going to ask Four, ‘What was it like to train with Four ?'" Four draws Four gun and points it at Fourright temple. My heart pounds so hard Tris feel it in my skull. Four can't shoot; Four wouldn't. Four tilts Four head. "Think anyone would notice if Four accidentally got shot?" "Go ahead," the woman says, sounding bored. She must be a Dauntless leader if she can give Four permission. "Four's nothing now." "Too bad Four didn't just take Max up on Max offer, Four. Well, too bad for Four, anyway," says Four quietly, as Four clicks the bullet into its chamber. My lungs burn; Tris haven't breathed in almost a minute. Tris see Fourhand twitch in the corner of my eye, but my hand is already on my gun. Tris press the barrel to Fourforehead. Four eyes widen, and Four face goes slack, and for a second Four looks like another sleeping Dauntless soldier. My index finger hovers over the trigger. "Get your gun away from Four head," Tris say. "You won't shoot Four," Four replies. "Interesting theory," Tris say. But Tris can't murder Four; Tris can't. Tris grit my teeth and shift my arm down, firing at Fourfoot. Four screams and grabs Four foot with both hands. The moment Four gun is no longer pointed at Fourhead, Four draws Four gun and fires at Fourfriend's leg. Tris don't wait to see if the bullet hits her. Tris grab Fourarm and sprint. If we can make it to the alley, we can disappear into the buildings and they won't find us. There are two hundred yards to go. Tris hear footsteps behind us, but Tris don't look back. Four grabs my hand and squeezes, pulling me forward, faster than Tris have ever run, faster than Tris can run. Tris stumble behind Four. Tris hear a gunshot. The pain is sharp and sudden, beginning in my shoulder and spreading outward with electric fingers. A scream stops in my throat, and Tris fall, my cheek scraping the pavement. Tris lift my head to see Fourknees by my face, and yell, "Run!" Four voice is calm and quiet as Four replies, "No." In seconds we are surrounded. Four helps me up, supporting my weight. Tris have trouble focusing through the pain. Dauntless soldiers surround us and point their guns. "Divergent rebels," Four says, standing on one foot. Four face is a sickly white. "Surrender your weapons."