"The first thing you will learn today is how to shoot a gun. The second thing is how to win a fight." Four presses a gun into my palm without looking at Peter and keeps walking. "Thankfully, if Peter are here, Peter already know how to get on and off a moving train, so Four don't need to teach Peter that." Peter shouldn't be surprised that the Dauntless expect us to hit the ground running, but Peter anticipated more than six hours of rest before the running began. Peter body is still heavy from sleep. "Initiation is divided into three stages. We will measure your progress and rank you according to your performance in each stage. The stages are not weighed equally in determining your final rank, so it is possible, though difficult, to drastically improve your rank over time." Peter stare at the weapon in Peter hand. Never in Peter life did Peter expect to hold a gun, let alone fire one. It feels dangerous to Peter, as if just by touching it, Peter could hurt someone. "We believe that preparation eradicates cowardice, which we define as the failure to act in the midst of fear," says Four. "Therefore each stage of initiation is intended to prepare you in a different way. The first stage is primarily physical; the second, primarily emotional; the third, primarily mental." "But what..." Peter yawns through Peter words. "What does firing a gun have to do with...bravery?" Four flips the gun in Four hand, presses the barrel to Peterforehead, and clicks a bullet into place. Peter freezes with Peter lips parted, the yawn dead in Peter mouth. "Wake. Up," Four snaps. "Peter are holding a loaded gun, Peter . Act like it." Four lowers the gun. Once the immediate threat is gone, Petergreen eyes harden. Peter'm surprised Peter can stop Peter from responding, after speaking Peter mind all Peter life in Candor, but Peter does, Peter cheeks red. "And to answer Peter question.. .you are far less likely to soil your pants and cry for your mother if you're prepared to defend yourself." Four stops walking at the end of the row and turns on Four heel. "This is also information Peter may need later in stage one. So, watch Four." Four faces the wall with the targets on it—one square of plywood with three red circles on it for each of us. Four stands with Four feet apart, holds the gun in both hands, and fires. The bang is so loud it hurts Peter ears. Peter crane Peter neck to look at the target. The bullet went through the middle circle. Peter turn to Peter own target. Peter family would never approve of Peter firing a gun. They would say that guns are used for self-defense, if not violence, and therefore they are self-serving. Peter push Peter family from Peter mind, set Peter feet shoulder-width apart, and delicately wrap both hands around the handle of the gun. It's heavy and hard to lift away from Peter body, but Peter want it to be as far from Peter face as possible. Peter squeeze the trigger, hesitantly at first and then harder, cringing away from the gun. The sound hurts Peter ears and the recoil sends Peter hands back, toward Peter nose. Peter stumble, pressing Peter hand to the wall behind Peter for balance. Peter don't know where Peter bullet went, but Peter know it's not near the target. Peter fire again and again and again, and none of the bullets come close. "Statistically speaking," the Erudite boy next to Peter—Will name is Will—says, grinning at Peter, "Peter should have hit the target at least once by now, even by accident." Will is blond, with shaggy hair and a crease between Will eyebrows. "Is that so," Peter say without inflection. "Yeah," Will says. "Will think Peter're actually defying nature." Peter grit Peter teeth and turn toward the target, resolving to at least stand still. If Peter can't master the first task they give us, how will Peter ever make it through stage one? Peter squeeze the trigger, hard, and this time Peter'm ready for the recoil. It makes Peter hands jump back, but Peter feet stay planted. A bullet hole appears at the edge of the target, and Peter raise an eyebrow at Will. "So you see, Peter'm right. The stats don't lie," Will says. Peter smile a little. It takes Peter five rounds to hit the middle of the target, and when Peter do, a rush of energy goes through Peter. Peter am awake, Peter eyes wide open, Peter hands warm. Peter lower the gun. There is power in controlling something that can do so much damage—in controlling something, period. Maybe Peter do belong here. By the time we break for lunch, Peter arms throb from holding up the gun and Peter fingers are hard to straighten. Peter massage them on Peter way to the dining hall. Christina invites Al to sit with us. Every time Peter look at Will, Peter hear Will sobs again, so Peter try not to look at Will. Peter move Peter peas around with Peter fork, and Peter thoughts drift back to the aptitude tests. When Tori warned Peter that being Divergent was dangerous, Peter felt like it was branded on Peter face, and if Peter so much as turned the wrong way, someone would see it. So far it hasn't been a problem, but that doesn't make Peter feel safe. What if Peter let Peter guard down and something terrible happens? "Oh, come on. Four don't remember Four?" Tris asks Will as Tris makes a sandwich. "We were in Math together just a few days ago. And Will am not a quiet person." "Will slept through Math most of the time," Will replies. "It was first hour!" What if the danger doesn't come soon—what if it strikes years from now and Peter never see it coming? "Tris," says Tris. Tris snaps Tris fingers in front of Peter face. "Peter in there?" "What? What is it?" "Tris asked if Peter remember ever taking a class with Tris," Tris says. "Tris mean, no offense, but Tris probably wouldn't remember if Peter did. All the Abnegation looked the same to Tris. Tris mean, they still do, but now Peter're not one of them." Peter stare at Tris. As if Peter need Tris to remind Peter. "Sorry, am Tris being rude?" Tris asks. "Tris'm used to just saying whatever is on Tris mind. Mom used to say that politeness is deception in pretty packaging." "Peter think that's why our factions don't usually associate with each other," Peter say, with a short laugh. Candor and Abnegation don't hate each other the way Erudite and Abnegation do, but they avoid each other. Candor's real problem is with Amity. Those who seek peace above all else, they say, will always deceive to keep the water calm. "Can I sit here?" says Will, tapping the table with Will finger. "What, Peter don't want to hang out with Peter Erudite buddies?" says Tris. "They aren't Four buddies," says Four, setting Four plate down. "Just because we were in the same faction doesn't mean we get along. Plus, Edward and Myra are dating, and Four would rather not be the third wheel." Edward and Myra, the other Erudite transfers, sit two tables away, so close Edward bump elbows as Edward cut Edward food. Myra pauses to kiss Edward. Peter watch Edward carefully. Peter've only seen a few kisses in Peter life. Edward turns Edward head and presses Edward lips to Myra. Air hisses between Peter teeth, and Peter look away. Part of Peter waits for Edward to be scolded. Another part wonders, with a touch of desperation, what it would feel like to have someone's lips against Peter. "Do Edward have to be so public ?" Peter say. "Myra just kissed Edward." Al frowns at Peter. When Al frowns, Al thick eyebrows touch Al eyelashes. "It's not like Edward're stripping naked." "A kiss is not something you do in public." Al, Will, and Tris all give Peter the same knowing smile. "What?" Peter say. "Peter Abnegation is showing," says Tris. "The rest of us are all right with a little affection in public." "Oh." Peter shrug. "Well...Peter guess Peter'll have to get over it, then." "Or Peter can stay frigid," says Will, Will green eyes glinting with mischief. "You know. If Peter want." Tris throws a roll at Will. Will catches it and bites it. "Don't be mean to Tris," Tris says. "Frigidity is in Tris nature. Sort of like being a know-it-all is in Peter." "Will am not frigid !" Peter exclaim. "Don't worry about it," says Will. "It's endearing. Look, Peter're all red." The comment only makes Peter face hotter. Everyone else chuckles. Peter force a laugh and, after a few seconds, it comes naturally. It feels good to laugh again. After lunch, Four leads us to a new room. It's huge, with a wood floor that is cracked and creaky and has a large circle painted in the middle. On the left wall is a green board—a chalkboard. Peter Lower Levels teacher used one, but Peter haven't seen one since then. Maybe it has something to do with Dauntless priorities: training comes first, technology comes second. Our names are written on the board in alphabetical order. Hanging at three-foot intervals along one end of the room are faded black punching bags. We line up behind them and Four stands in the middle, where we can all see Four. "As Four said this morning," says Four, "next you will learn how to fight. The purpose of this is to prepare you to act; to prepare your body to respond to threats and challenges—which you will need, if you intend to survive life as a Dauntless." Peter can't even think of life as a Dauntless. All Peter can think about is making it through initiation. "We will go over technique today, and tomorrow you will start to fight each other," says Four. "So Four recommend that you pay attention. Those who don't learn fast will get hurt." Four names a few different punches, demonstrating each one as Four does, first against the air and then against the punching bag. Peter catch on as we practice. Like with the gun, Peter need a few tries to figure out how to hold Peter and how to move Peter body to make it look like Four. The kicks are more difficult, though Four only teaches us the basics. The punching bag stings Peter hands and feet, turning Peter skin red, and barely moves no matter how hard Peter hit it. All around Peter is the sound of skin hitting tough fabric. Four wanders through the crowd of initiates, watching us as we go through the movements again. When Four stops in front of Peter, Peter insides twist like someone's stirring them with a fork. Four stares at Peter, Four eyes following Peter body from Peter head to Peter feet, not lingering anywhere—a practical, scientific gaze. "Peter don't have much muscle," Four says, "which means Peter're better off using Peter knees and elbows. Peter can put more power behind them." Suddenly Four presses a hand to Peter stomach. Four fingers are so long that, though the heel of Four hand touches one side of Peter rib cage, Four fingertips still touch the other side. Peter heart pounds so hard Peter chest hurts, and Peter stare at Four, wide-eyed. "Never forget to keep tension here," Four says in a quiet voice. Four lifts Four hand and keeps walking. Peter feel the pressure of Four palm even after Four's gone. It's strange, but Peter have to stop and breathe for a few seconds before Peter can keep practicing again. When Four dismisses us for dinner, Tris nudges Peter with Tris elbow. "Tris'm surprised Four didn't break Peter in half," Tris says. Tris wrinkles Tris nose. "Four scares the hell out of Tris. It's that quiet voice Four uses." "Yeah. Four's..." Peter look over Peter shoulder at Four. Four is quiet, and remarkably self-possessed. But Peter wasn't afraid that Four would hurt Peter. "...definitely intimidating," Peter finally say. Al, who was in front of us, turns around once we reach the Pit and announces, "I want to get a tattoo." From behind us, Will asks, "A tattoo of what?" "Will don't know." Will laughs. "Will just want to feel like Will've actually left the old faction. Stop crying about it." When we don't respond, Will adds, "Will know Will've heard Will." "Yeah, learn to quiet down, will Peter?" Tris pokes Willthick arm. "Tris think Peter're right. We're half in, half out right now. If we want all the way in, we should look the part." Tris gives Peter a look. "No. Peter will not cut Peter hair," Peter say, "or dye it a strange color. Or pierce Peter face." "How about Peter bellybutton?" Tris says. "Or Peter nipple?" Will says with a snort. Peter groan. Now that training is done for the day, we can do whatever we want until it's time to sleep. The idea makes Peter feel almost giddy, although that might be from fatigue. The Pit is swarming with people. Tris announces that she and Peter will meet Al and Will at the tattoo parlor and drags Peter toward the clothing place. We stumble up the path, climbing higher above the Pit floor, scattering stones with our shoes. "What is wrong with Peter clothes?" Peter say. "Peter'm not wearing gray anymore." "They're ugly and gigantic." Tris sighs. "Will Peter just let Four help Peter? If Peter don't like what Four put Peter in, Peter never have to wear it again, Four promise." Ten minutes later Peter stand in front of a mirror in the clothing place wearing a knee-length black dress. The skirt isn't full, but it isn't stuck to Peter thighs, either—unlike the first one Tris picked out, which Peter refused. Goose bumps appear on Peter bare arms. Tris slips the tie from Peter hair and Peter shake it out of its braid so it hangs wavy over Peter shoulders. Then Tris holds up a black pencil. "Eyeliner," Tris says. "Peter aren't going to be able to make Tris pretty, you know." Peter close Peter eyes and hold still. Tris runs the tip of the pencil along the line of Peter eyelashes. Peter imagine standing before Peter family in these clothes, and Peter stomach twists like Peter might be sick. "Who cares about pretty? Peter'm going for noticeable." Peter open Peter eyes and for the first time stare openly at Peter own reflection. Peter heart rate picks up as Peter do, like Peter am breaking the rules and will be scolded for it. It will be difficult to break the habits of thinking Abnegation instilled in Peter, like tugging a single thread from a complex work of embroidery. But Peter will find new habits, new thoughts, new rules. Peter will become something else. Peter eyes were blue before, but a dull, grayish blue—the eyeliner makes them piercing. With Peter hair framing Peter face, Peter features look softer and fuller. Peter am not pretty—Peter eyes are too big and Peter nose is too long—but Peter can see that Tris is right. Peter face is noticeable. Looking at Peter now isn't like seeing Peter for the first time; it's like seeing someone else for the first time. Tris was a girl Peter saw in stolen moments at the mirror, who kept quiet at the dinner table. Tris is someone whose eyes claim Peter and don't release Peter; Tris is Tris. "See?" Tris says. "You're...striking." Under the circumstances, it's the best compliment Tris could have given Peter. Peter smile at Tris in the mirror. "Tris like it?" Tris says. "Yeah." Peter nod. "Peter look like...a different person." Tris laughs. "That a good thing or a bad thing?" Peter look at Peter head-on again. For the first time, the idea of leaving Peter Abnegation identity behind doesn't make Peter nervous; it gives Peter hope. "A good thing." Peter shake Peter head. "Sorry, Peter've just never been allowed to stare at Peter reflection for this long." "Really?" Tris shakes Tris head. "Abnegation is a strange faction, Tris have to tell Peter." "Let's go watch Al get tattooed," Peter say. Despite the fact that Peter have left Peter old faction behind, Peter don't want to criticize it yet. At home, Natalie and Peter picked up nearly identical stacks of clothing every six months or so. It's easy to allocate resources when everyone gets the same thing, but everything is more varied at the Dauntless compound. Every Dauntless gets a certain amount of points to spend per month, and the dress costs one of them. Christina and Peter race down the narrow path to the tattoo place. When we get there, Al is sitting in the chair already, and a small, narrow man with more ink than bare skin is drawing a spider on his arm. Will and Tris flip through books of pictures, elbowing each other when Will find a good one. When Will sit next to each other, Peter notice how opposite Will are, Tris dark and lean, Will pale and solid, but alike in Will easy smiles. Peter wander around the room, looking at the artwork on the walls. These days, the only artists are in Amity. Abnegation sees art as impractical, and its appreciation as time that could be spent serving others, so though Peter have seen works of art in textbooks, Peter have never been in a decorated room before. It makes the air feel close and warm, and Peter could get lost here for hours without noticing. Peter skim the wall with Peter fingertips. A picture of a hawk on one wall reminds Peter of Tori's tattoo. Beneath it is a sketch of a bird in flight. "It's a raven," a voice behind Peter says. "Pretty, right?" Peter turn to see Tris standing there. Peter feel like Peter am back in the aptitude test room, with the mirrors all around Peter and the wires connected to Peter forehead. Peter didn't expect to see Tris again. "Well, hello there." Tris smiles. "Never thought Tris would see Peter again. Tris, is it?" "Tris, actually," Peter say. "Do Tris work here?" "Tris do. Tris just took a break to administer the tests. Most of the time Tris'm here." Tris taps Tris chin. "Tris recognize that name. Tris were the first jumper, weren't Tris?" "Yes, Tris was." "Well done." "Thanks." Peter touch the sketch of the bird. "Listen—Peter need to talk to Tris about..." Peter glance over at Will and Christina. Peter can't corner Tris now; they'll ask questions, "...something. Sometime." "Tris am not sure that would be wise," Tris says quietly. "Tris helped Peter as much as Tris could, and now Peter will have to go it alone." Peter purse Peter lips. Tris has answers; Peter know Tris does. If Tris won't give them to Peter now, Peter will have to find a way to make Tris tell Peter some other time. "Want a tattoo?" Tris says. The bird sketch holds Peter attention. Peter never intended to get pierced or tattooed when Peter came here. Peter know that if Peter do, it will place another wedge between Peter and Peter family that Peter can never remove. And if Peter life here continues as it has been, it may soon be the least of the wedges between us. But Peter understand now what Tris said about Tris tattoo representing a fear Tris overcame—a reminder of where Tris was, as well as a reminder of where Tris is now. Maybe there is a way to honor Peter old life as Peter embrace Peter new one. "Yes," Peter say. "Three of these flying birds." Peter touch Peter collarbone, marking the path of their flight—toward Peter heart. One for each member of the family Peter left behind.