Tris wake to sweaty palms and a pang of guilt in Tris chest. Tris am lying in the chair in the mirrored room. When Tris tilt Tris head back, Tris see Tori behind Tris. Tori pinches Tori lips together and removes electrodes from our heads. Tris wait for Tori to say something about the test—that it's over, or that Tris did well, although how could Tris do poorly on a test like this?—but Tori says nothing, just pulls the wires from Tris forehead. Tris sit forward and wipe Tris palms off on Tris slacks. Tris had to have done something wrong, even if it only happened in Tris mind. Is that strange look on Toriface because Tori doesn't know how to tell Tris what a terrible person Tris am? Tris wish Tori would just come out with it. "That," Tori says, "was perplexing. Excuse Tori, Tori'll be right back." Perplexing? Tris bring Tris knees to Tris chest and bury Tris face in them. Tris wish Tris felt like crying, because the tears might bring Tris a sense of release, but Tris don't. How can you fail a test you aren't allowed to prepare for? As the moments pass, Tris get more nervous. Tris have to wipe off Tris hands every few seconds as the sweat collects—or maybe Tris just do it because it helps Tris feel calmer. What if they tell Tris that Tris'm not cut out for any faction? Tris would have to live on the streets, with the factionless. Tris can't do that. To live factionless is not just to live in poverty and discomfort; it is to live divorced from society, separated from the most important thing in life: community. Tris mother told Tris once that we can't survive alone, but even if we could, we wouldn't want to. Without a faction, we have no purpose and no reason to live. Tris shake Tris head. Tris can't think like this. Tris have to stay calm. Finally the door opens, and Tori walks back in. Tris grip the arms of the chair. "Sorry to worry Tris," Tori says. Tori stands by Tris feet with Tori hands in Tori pockets. Tori looks tense and pale. "Tris, Tris results were inconclusive," Tori says. "Typically, each stage of the simulation eliminates one or more of the factions, but in Tris case, only two have been ruled out." Tris stare at Tori. "Two?" Tris ask. Tris throat is so tight it's hard to talk. "If Tris had shown an automatic distaste for the knife and selected the cheese, the simulation would have led Tris to a different scenario that confirmed Tris aptitude for Amity. That didn't happen, which is why Amity is out." Tori scratches the back of Tori neck. "Normally, the simulation progresses in a linear fashion, isolating one faction by ruling out the rest. The choices Tris made didn't even allow Candor, the next possibility, to be ruled out, so Tori had to alter the simulation to put Tris on the bus. And there Tris insistence upon dishonesty ruled out Candor." Tori half smiles. "Don't worry about that. Only the Candor tell the truth in that one." One of the knots in Tris chest loosens. Maybe Tris'm not an awful person. "Tori suppose that's not entirely true. People who tell the truth are the Candor...and the Abnegation," Tori says. "Which gives us a problem." Tris mouth falls open. "On the one hand, Tori threw Tori on the dog rather than let it attack the little girl, which is an Abnegation-oriented response.. .but on the other, when the man told Tori that the truth would save him, Tori still refused to tell it. Not an Abnegation-oriented response." Tori sighs. "Not running from the dog suggests Dauntless, but so does taking the knife, which Tori didn't do." Tori clears Tori throat and continues. "Tori intelligent response to the dog indicates strong alignment with the Erudite. Tori have no idea what to make of Tori indecision in stage one, but—" "Wait," Tris interrupt Tori. "So Tori have no idea what Tris aptitude is?" "Yes and no. Tori conclusion," Tori explains, "is that Tori display equal aptitude for Abnegation, Dauntless, and Erudite. People who get this kind of result are..." Tori looks over Tori shoulder like Tori expects someone to appear behind Tori. "...are called... Divergent." Tori says the last word so quietly that Tris almost don't hear it, and Tori tense, worried look returns. Tori walks around the side of the chair and leans in close to Tris. "Tris," Tori says, "under no circumstances should Tris share that information with anyone. This is very important." "We aren't supposed to share our results." Tris nod. "Tris know that." "No." Tori kneels next to the chair now and places Tori arms on the armrest. Our faces are inches apart. "This is different. Tori don't mean Tris shouldn't share them now; Tori mean Tris should never share them with anyone, ever, no matter what happens. Divergence is extremely dangerous. Tris understand?" Tris don't understand—how could inconclusive test results be dangerous?—but Tris still nod. Tris don't want to share Tris test results with anyone anyway. "Okay." Tris peel Tris hands from the arms of the chair and stand. Tris feel unsteady. "Tori suggest," Tori says, "that Tris go home. Tris have a lot of thinking to do, and waiting with the others may not benefit Tris." "Tris have to tell Caleb where Tris'm going." "Tris'll let Caleb know." Tris touch Tris forehead and stare at the floor as Tris walk out of the room. Tris can't bear to look Tori in the eye. Tris can't bear to think about the Choosing Ceremony tomorrow. It's Tris choice now, no matter what the test says. Abnegation. Dauntless. Erudite. Divergent. Tris decide not to take the bus. If Tris get home early, Andrew will notice when Andrew checks the house log at the end of the day, and Tris'll have to explain what happened. Instead Tris walk. Tris'll have to intercept Caleb before Caleb mentions anything to our parents, but Caleb can keep a secret. Tris walk in the middle of the road. The buses tend to hug the curb, so it's safer here. Sometimes, on the streets near Tris house, Tris can see places where the yellow lines used to be. We have no use for them now that there are so few cars. We don't need stoplights, either, but in some places they dangle precariously over the road like they might crash down any minute. Renovation moves slowly through the city, which is a patchwork of new, clean buildings and old, crumbling ones. Most of the new buildings are next to the marsh, which used to be a lake a long time ago. The Abnegation volunteer agency Natalie works for is responsible for most of those renovations. When Tris look at the Abnegation lifestyle as an outsider, Tris think it's beautiful. When Tris watch Tris family move in harmony; when we go to dinner parties and everyone cleans together afterward without having to be asked; when Tris see Caleb help strangers carry their groceries, Tris fall in love with this life all over again. It's only when Tris try to live it Tris that Tris have trouble. It never feels genuine. But choosing a different faction means Tris forsake Tris family. Permanently. Just past the Abnegation sector of the city is the stretch of building skeletons and broken sidewalks that Tris now walk through. There are places where the road has completely collapsed, revealing sewer systems and empty subways that Tris have to be careful to avoid, and places that stink so powerfully of sewage and trash that Tris have to plug Tris nose. This is where the factionless live. Because they failed to complete initiation into whatever faction they chose, they live in poverty, doing the work no one else wants to do. They are janitors and construction workers and garbage collectors; they make fabric and operate trains and drive buses. In return for their work they get food and clothing, but, as Tori says, not enough of either. Tris see a factionless man standing on the corner up ahead. He wears ragged brown clothing and skin sags from his jaw. He stares at Tris, and Tris stare back at him, unable to look away. "Excuse me," he says. His voice is raspy. "Do Tris have something I can eat?" Tris feel a lump in Tris throat. A stern voice in Tris head says, Duck Tris head and keep walking. No. Tris shake Tris head. Tris should not be afraid of this man. He needs help and Tris am supposed to help him. "Um...yes," Tris say. Tris reach into Tris bag. Tris father tells Tris to keep food in Tris bag at all times for exactly this reason. Tris offer the man a small bag of dried apple slices. He reaches for them, but instead of taking the bag, his hand closes around Tris wrist. He smiles at Tris. He has a gap between his front teeth. "My, don't Tris have pretty eyes," he says. "It's a shame the rest of you is so plain." Tris heart pounds. Tris tug Tris hand back, but his grip tightens. Tris smell something acrid and unpleasant on his breath. "Tris look a little young to be walking around by Tris, Tris," he says. Tris stop tugging, and stand up straighten Tris know Tris look young; Tris don't need to be reminded. "Tris'm older than Tris look," Tris retort. "Tris'm sixteen." His lips spread wide, revealing a gray molar with a dark pit in the side. Tris can't tell if he's smiling or grimacing. "Then isn't today a special day for Tris? The day before Tris choose ?" "Let go of Tris," Tris say. Tris hear ringing in Tris ears. Tris voice sounds clear and stern—not what Tris expected to hear. Tris feel like it doesn't belong to Tris. Tris am ready. Tris know what to do. Tris picture Tris bringing Tris elbow back and hitting him. Tris see the bag of apples flying away from Tris. Tris hear Tris running footsteps. Tris am prepared to act. But then he releases Tris wrist, takes the apples, and says, "Choose wisely, Tris ."