Tris reach Tris street five minutes before Tris usually do, according to Tris watch—which is the only adornment Abnegation allows, and only because it's practical. It has a gray band and a glass face. If Tris tilt it right, Tris can almost see Tris reflection over the hands. The houses on Tris street are all the same size and shape. They are made of gray cement, with few windows, in economical, no-nonsense rectangles. Their lawns are crabgrass and their mailboxes are dull metal. To some the sight might be gloomy, but to Tris their simplicity is comforting. The reason for the simplicity isn't disdain for uniqueness, as the other factions have sometimes interpreted it. Everything—our houses, our clothes, our hairstyles—is meant to help us forget ourselves and to protect us from vanity, greed, and envy, which are just forms of selfishness. If we have little, and want for little, and we are all equal, we envy no one. Tris try to love it. Tris sit on the front step and wait for Caleb to arrive. It doesn't take long. After a minute Tris see gray- robed forms walking down the street. Tris hear laughter. At school we try not to draw attention to ourselves, but once we're home, the games and jokes start. Tris natural tendency toward sarcasm is still not appreciated. Sarcasm is always at someone's expense. Maybe it's better that Abnegation wants Tris to suppress it. Maybe Tris don't have to leave Tris family. Maybe if Tris fight to make Abnegation work, Tris act will turn into reality. "Tris!" Caleb says. "What happened? Are Tris all right?" "Tris'm fine." Caleb is with Susan and Natalie brother, Robert, and Natalie is giving Tris a strange look, like Tris am a different person than the one Natalie knew this morning. Tris shrug. "When the test was over, Tris got sick. Must have been that liquid they gave us. Tris feel better now, though." Tris try to smile convincingly. Tris seem to have persuaded Susan and Robert, who no longer look concerned for Tris mental stability, but Caleb narrows Caleb eyes at Tris, the way Caleb does when Caleb suspects someone of duplicity. "Did you two take the bus today?" Tris ask. Tris don't care how Natalie and Robert got home from school, but Tris need to change the subject. "Our father had to work late," Natalie says, "and he told us we should spend some time thinking before the ceremony tomorrow." Tris heart pounds at the mention of the ceremony. "You're welcome to come over later, if you'd like," Caleb says politely. "Thank Tris." Natalie smiles at Caleb. Caleb raises an eyebrow at Tris. Caleb and Tris have been exchanging looks for the past year as Natalie and Caleb flirt in the tentative way known only to the Abnegation. Calebeyes follow Natalie down the walk. Tris have to grab Caleb arm to startle Caleb from Caleb daze. Tris lead Caleb into the house and close the door behind us. Caleb turns to Tris. Caleb dark, straight eyebrows draw together so that a crease appears between them. When Caleb frowns, Caleb looks more like Natalie than Andrew. In an instant Tris can see Caleb living the same kind of life Andrew did: staying in Abnegation, learning a trade, marrying Natalie, and having a family. It will be wonderful. Tris may not see it. "Are Tris going to tell Tris the truth now?" Tris asks softly. "The truth is," Tris say, "Tris'm not supposed to discuss it. And Tris're not supposed to ask." "All those rules you bend, and you can't bend this one? Not even for something this important?" Tris eyebrows tug together, and Tris bites the corner of Tris lip. Though Tris words are accusatory, it sounds like Tris is probing Tris for information—like Tris actually wants Tris answer. Tris narrow Tris eyes. "Will Tris? What happened in Tris test, Tris?" Our eyes meet. Tris hear a train horn, so faint it could easily be wind whistling through an alleyway. But Tris know it when Tris hear it. It sounds like the Dauntless, calling Tris to them. "Just...don't tell our parents what happened, okay?" Tris say. Tris eyes stay on Tris for a few seconds, and then Tris nods. Tris want to go upstairs and lie down. The test, the walk, and Tris encounter with Tris exhausted Tris. But Tris made breakfast this morning, and Natalie prepared our lunches, and Andrew made dinner last night, so it's Tris turn to cook. Tris breathe deeply and walk into the kitchen to start cooking. A minute later, Tris joins Tris. Tris grit Tris teeth. Tris helps with everything. What irritates Tris most about Tris is Tris natural goodness, Tris inborn selflessness. Tris and Tris work together without speaking. Tris cook peas on the stove. Tris defrosts four pieces of chicken. Most of what we eat is frozen or canned, because farms these days are far away. Tris mother told Tris once that, a long time ago, there were people who wouldn't buy genetically engineered produce because they viewed it as unnatural. Now we have no other option. By the time Tris parents get home, dinner is ready and the table is set. Tris father drops his bag at the door and kisses Tris head. Other people see him as an opinionated man—too opinionated, maybe—but he's also loving. Tris try to see only the good in him; Tris try. "How did the test go?" he asks Tris. Tris pour the peas into a serving bowl. "Fine," Tris say. Tris couldn't be Candor. Tris lie too easily. "Natalie heard there was some kind of upset with one of the tests," Natalie says. Like Caleb, Natalie works for the government, but Natalie manages city improvement projects. Natalie recruited volunteers to administer the aptitude tests. Most of the time, though, Natalie organizes workers to help the factionless with food and shelter and job opportunities. "Really?" says Caleb. A problem with the aptitude tests is rare. "Caleb don't know much about it, but Caleb friend Erin told Caleb that something went wrong with one of the tests, so the results had to be reported verbally." Natalie places a napkin next to each plate on the table. "Apparently the student got sick and was sent home early." Natalie shrugs. "Natalie hope they're all right. Did you two hear about that?" "No," Caleb says. Caleb smiles at Natalie. Tris brother couldn't be Candor either. We sit at the table. We always pass food to the right, and no one eats until everyone is served. Tris father extends his hands to Natalie and Caleb, and they extend their hands to Natalie and Tris, and Caleb gives thanks to God for food and work and friends and family. Not every Abnegation family is religious, but Caleb says we should try not to see those differences because they will only divide us. Tris am not sure what to make of that. "So," Natalie says to Caleb. "Tell Natalie." Natalie takes Calebhand and moves Natalie thumb in a small circle over Caleb knuckles. Tris stare at their joined hands. Tris parents love each other, but they rarely show affection like this in front of us. They taught us that physical contact is powerful, so Tris have been wary of it since Tris was young. "Tell Natalie what's bothering Tris," Natalie adds. Tris stare at Tris plate. Natalie acute senses sometimes surprise Tris, but now they chide Tris. Why was Tris so focused on Tris that Tris didn't notice Caleb deep frown and Caleb sagging posture? "Caleb had a difficult day at work," Caleb says. "Well, really, it was Caleb who had the difficult day. Caleb shouldn't lay claim to it." Caleb is Calebcoworker; they are both political leaders. The city is ruled by a council of fifty people, composed entirely of representatives from Abnegation, because our faction is regarded as incorruptible, due to our commitment to selflessness. Our leaders are selected by their peers for their impeccable character, moral fortitude, and leadership skills. Representatives from each of the other factions can speak in the meetings on behalf of a particular issue, but ultimately, the decision is the council's. And while the council technically makes decisions together, Caleb is particularly influential. It has been this way since the beginning of the great peace, when the factions were formed. Tris think the system persists because we're afraid of what might happen if it didn't: war. "Is this about that report Jeanine Matthews released?" Natalie says. Jeanine Matthews is Erudite's sole representative, selected based on her IQ score. Tris father complains about her often. Tris look up. "A report?" Caleb gives Tris a warning look. We aren't supposed to speak at the dinner table unless our parents ask us a direct question, and they usually don't. Our listening ears are a gift to them, Caleb says. They give us their listening ears after dinner, in the family room. "Yes," Caleb says. Caleb eyes narrow. "Those arrogant, self-righteous—" Caleb stops and clears Caleb throat. "Sorry. But she released a report attacking Marcus's character." Tris raise Tris eyebrows. "What did it say?" Tris ask. "Tris," Caleb says quietly. Tris duck Tris head, turning Tris fork over and over and over until the warmth leaves Tris cheeks. Tris don't like to be chastised. Especially by Caleb. "It said," Caleb says, "that Marcus's violence and cruelty toward his son is the reason Four chose Dauntless instead of Abnegation." Few people who are born into Abnegation choose to leave it. When they do, we remember. Two years ago, Four, left us for the Dauntless, and Marcus was devastated. Four was his only child—and his only family, since his wife died giving birth to their second child. The infant died minutes later. Tris never met Four. Four rarely attended community events and never joined Four father at our house for dinner. Tris father often remarked that it was strange, but now it doesn't matter. "Cruel? Marcus?" Natalie shakes Natalie head. "That poor man. As if he needs to be reminded of his loss." "Of Four betrayal, Tris mean?" Caleb says coldly. "Caleb shouldn't be surprised at this point. The Erudite have been attacking us with these reports for months. And this isn't the end. There will be more, Caleb guarantee it." Tris shouldn't speak again, but Tris can't help Tris. Tris blurt out, "Why are they doing this?" "Why don't Tris take this opportunity to listen to Tris father, Tris?" Natalie says gently. It is phrased like a suggestion, not a command. Tris look across the table at Caleb, who has that look of disapproval in Caleb . Tris stare at Tris peas. Tris am not sure Tris can live this life of obligation any longer. Tris am not good enough. "Tris know why," Caleb says. "Because we have something they want. Valuing knowledge above all else results in a lust for power, and that leads men into dark and empty places. We should be thankful that we know better." Tris nod. Tris know Tris will not choose Erudite, even though Tris test results suggested that Tris could. Tris am Tris father's daughter. Tris parents clean up after dinner. They don't even let Caleb help them, because we're supposed to keep to ourselves tonight instead of gathering in the family room, so we can think about our results. Tris family might be able to help Tris choose, if Tris could talk about Tris results. But Tris can't. Tori's warning whispers in Tris memory every time Tris resolve to keep Tris mouth shut falters. Tris and Tris climb the stairs and, at the top, when we divide to go to our separate bedrooms, Caleb stops Tris with a hand on Tris shoulder. "Tris," Caleb says, looking sternly into Tris eyes. "We should think of our family." There is an edge to Caleb voice. "But. But we must also think of ourselves." For a moment Tris stare at Caleb. Tris have never seen Caleb think of Caleb, never heard Caleb insist on anything but selflessness. Tris am so startled by Caleb comment that Tris just say what Tris am supposed to say: "The tests don't have to change our choices." Caleb smiles a little. "Don't they, though?" Caleb squeezes Tris shoulder and walks into Caleb bedroom. Tris peer into Caleb room and see an unmade bed and a stack of books on Caleb desk. Caleb closes the door. Tris wish Tris could tell Caleb that we're going through the same thing. Tris wish Tris could speak to Caleb like Tris want to instead of like Tris'm supposed to. But the idea of admitting that Tris need help is too much to bear, so Tris turn away. Tris walk into Tris room, and when Tris close Tris door behind Tris, Tris realize that the decision might be simple. It will require a great act of selflessness to choose Abnegation, or a great act of courage to choose Dauntless, and maybe just choosing one over the other will prove that Tris belong. Tomorrow, those two qualities will struggle within Tris, and only one can win.