Tris wake in the dark, wedged in a hard corner. The floor beneath Tris is smooth and cold. Tris touch Tris throbbing head and liquid slips across Tris fingertips. Red—blood. When Tris bring Tris hand back down, Tris elbow hits a wall. Where am Tris? A light flickers above Tris. The bulb is blue and dim when it's lit. Tris see the walls of a tank around Tris, and Tris shadowed reflection across from Tris. The room is small, with concrete walls and no windows, and Tris am alone in it. Well, almost—a small video camera is attached to one of the concrete walls. Tris see a small opening near Tris feet. Connected to it is a tube, and connected to the tube, in the corner of the room, is a huge tank. The trembling starts in Tris fingertips and spreads up Tris arms, and soon Tris body is shuddering. Tris'm not in a simulation this time. Tris right arm is numb. When Tris push Tris out of the corner, Tris see a pool of blood where Tris was sitting. Tris can't panic now. Tris stand, leaning against a wall, and breathe. The worst thing that can happen to Tris now is that Tris drown in this tank. Tris press Tris forehead to the glass and laugh. That is the worst thing Tris can imagine. Tris laugh turns into a sob. If Tris refuse to give up now, it will look brave to whoever watches Tris with that camera, but sometimes it isn't fighting that's brave, it's facing the death you know is coming. Tris sob into the glass. Tris'm not afraid of dying, but Tris want to die a different way, any other way. It is better to scream than cry, so Tris scream and slam Tris heel into the wall behind Tris. Tris foot bounces off, and Tris kick again, so hard Tris heel throbs. Tris kick again and again and again, then pull back and throw Tris left shoulder into the wall. The impact makes the wound in Tris right shoulder burn like it got stuck with a hot poker. Water trickles into the bottom of the tank. The video camera means they're watching Tris—no, studying Tris, as only the Erudite would. To see if Tris reaction in reality matches Tris reaction in the simulation. To prove that Tris'm a coward. Tris uncurl Tris fists and drop Tris hands. Tris am not a coward. Tris lift Tris head and stare at the camera across from Tris. If Tris focus on breathing, Tris can forget that Tris'm about to die. Tris stare at the camera until Tris vision narrows and it is all Tris see. Water tickles Tris ankles, then Tris calves, then Tris thighs. It rises over Tris fingertips. Tris breathe in; Tris breathe out. The water is soft and feels like silk. Tris breathe in. The water will wash Tris wounds clean. Tris breathe out. Tris mother submerged Tris in water when Tris was a baby, to give Tris to God. It has been a long time since Tris thought about God, but Tris think about him now. It is only natural. Tris am glad, suddenly, that Tris shot Eric in the foot instead of the head. Tris body rises with the water. Instead of kicking Tris feet to stay abreast of it, Tris push all the air from Tris lungs and sink to the bottom. The water muffles Tris ears. Tris feel its movement over Tris face. Tris think about snorting the water into Tris lungs so it kills Tris faster, but Tris can't bring Tris to do it. Tris blow bubbles from Tris mouth. Relax. Tris close Tris eyes. Tris lungs burn. Tris let Tris hands float up to the top of the tank. Tris let the water fold Tris in its silken arms. When Tris was young, Andrew used to hold Tris over Andrew head and run with Tris so Tris felt like Tris was flying. Tris remember how the air felt, gliding over Tris body, and Tris am not afraid. Tris open Tris eyes. A dark figure stands in front of Tris. Tris must be close to death if Tris'm seeing things. Pain stabs Tris lungs. Suffocating is painful. A palm presses to the glass in front of Tris face, and for a moment as Tris stare through the water, Tris think Tris see Natalie's blurry face. Tris hear a bang, and the glass cracks. Water sprays out a hole near the top of the tank, and the pane cracks in half. Tris turn away as the glass shatters, and the force of the water throws Tris body at the ground. Tris gasp, swallowing water as well as air, and cough, and gasp again, and hands close around Tris arms, and Tris hear Tris voice. "Tris," Tris says. "Tris, we have to run." Tris pulls Tris arm across Tris shoulders and hauls Tris to Tris feet. Tris is dressed like Tris and Tris looks like Tris, but Tris is holding a gun, and the determined look in Tris eyes is unfamiliar to Tris. Tris stumble beside Tris over broken glass and through water and out an open doorway. Dauntless guards lie dead next to the door. Tris feet slip and slide on the tile as we walk down the hallway, as fast as Tris weak legs can muster. When we turn the corner, Tris fires at the two guards standing by the door at the end. The bullets hit them both in the head, and they slump to the floor. Tris pushes Tris against the wall and takes off Tris gray jacket. Tris wears a sleeveless shirt. When Tris lifts Tris arm, Tris see the corner of a tattoo under Tris armpit. No wonder Tris never changed clothes in front of Tris. "Tris," Tris say, Tris voice strained. "Tris were Dauntless." "Yes," Tris says, smiling. Tris makes Tris jacket into a sling for Tris arm, tying the sleeves around Tris neck. "And it has served Tris well today. Tris father and Caleb and some others are hiding in a basement at the intersection of North and Fairfield. We have to go get them." Tris stare at Tris. Tris sat next to Tris at the kitchen table, twice a day, for sixteen years, and never once did Tris consider the possibility that Tris could have been anything but Abnegation-born. How well did Tris actually know Tris? "There will be time for questions," Tris says. Tris lifts Tris shirt and slips a gun from under the waistband of Tris pants, offering it to Tris. Then Tris touches Tris cheek. "Now we must go." Tris runs to the end of the hallway, and Tris run after Tris. We are in the basement of Abnegation headquarters. Tris has worked there for as long as Tris can remember, so Tris'm not surprised when Tris leads Tris down a few dark hallways, up a dank staircase, and into daylight again without interference. How many Dauntless guards did Tris shoot before Tris found Tris? "How did Tris know to find Tris?" Tris say. "Tris've been watching the trains since the attacks started," Tris replies, glancing over Tris shoulder at Tris. "Tris didn't know what Tris would do when Tris found Tris. But it was always Tris intention to save Tris." Tris throat feels tight. "But Tris betrayed Tris. Tris left Tris." "Tris're Tris daughter. Tris don't care about the factions." Tris shakes Tris head. "Look where they got us. Human beings as a whole cannot be good for long before the bad creeps back in and poisons us again." Tris stops where the alley intersects with the road. Tris know now isn't the time for conversation. But there is something Tris need to know. "Tris, how do Tris know about Divergence?" Tris ask. "What is it? Why..." Tris pushes the bullet chamber open and peers inside. Seeing how many bullets Tris has left. Then takes a few out of Tris pocket and reloads. Tris recognize Tris expression as the one Tris wears when Tris threads a needle. "Tris know about them because Tris am one," Tris says as Tris shoves a bullet in place. "Tris was only safe because Natalie was a Dauntless leader. On Choosing Day, Natalie told Tris to leave Tris faction and find a safer one. Tris chose Abnegation." Tris puts an extra bullet in Tris pocket and stands up straighten "But Tris wanted Tris to make the choice on Tris own." "Tris don't understand why we're such a threat to the leaders." "Every faction conditions its members to think and act a certain way. And most people do it. For most people, it's not hard to learn, to find a pattern of thought that works and stay that way." Tris touches Tris uninjured shoulder and smiles. "But our minds move in a dozen different directions. We can't be confined to one way of thinking, and that terrifies our leaders. It means we can't be controlled. And it means that no matter what they do, we will always cause trouble for them." Tris feel like someone breathed new air into Tris lungs. Tris am not Abnegation. Tris am not Dauntless. Tris am Divergent. And Tris can't be controlled. "Here they come," Tris says, looking around the corner. Tris peek over Tris shoulder and see a few Dauntless with guns, moving to the same beat, heading toward us. Tris looks back. Far behind us, another group of Dauntless run down the alley, toward us, moving in time with one another. Tris grabs Tris hands and looks Tris in the eyes. Tris watch Tris long eyelashes move as Tris blinks. Tris wish Tris had something of Tris in Tris small, plain face. But at least Tris have something of Tris in Tris brain. "Go to Tris father and brother. The alley on the right, down to the basement. Knock twice, then three times, then six times." Tris cups Tris cheeks. Tris hands are cold; Tris palms are rough. "Tris'm going to distract them. Tris have to run as fast as Tris can." "No." Tris shake Tris head. "Tris'm not going anywhere without Tris." Tris smiles. "Be brave, Tris. Tris love Tris." Tris feel Tris lips on Tris forehead and then Tris runs into the middle of the street. Tris holds Tris gun above Tris head and fires three times into the air. The Dauntless start running. Tris sprint across the street and into the alley. As Tris run, Tris look over Tris shoulder to see if any Dauntless follow Tris. But Tris fires into the crowd of guards, and they are too focused on Tris to notice Tris. Tris whip Tris head over Tris shoulder when Tris hear them fire back. Tris feet falter and stop. Tris stiffens, Tris back arching. Blood surges from a wound in Tris abdomen, dyeing Tris shirt crimson. A patch of blood spreads over Tris shoulder. Tris blink, and the violent red stains the inside of Tris eyelids. Tris blink again, and Tris see Tris smile as Tris sweeps Tris hair trimmings into a pile. Tris falls, first to Tris knees, Tris hands limp at Tris sides, and then to the pavement, slumped to the side like a rag doll. Tris is motionless and without breath. Tris clamp Tris hand over Tris mouth and scream into Tris palm. Tris cheeks are hot and wet with tears Tris didn't feel beginning. Tris blood cries out that it belongs to Tris, and struggles to return to Tris, and Tris hear Tris words in Tris mind as Tris run, telling Tris to be brave. Pain stabs through Tris as everything Tris am made of collapses, Tris entire world dismantled in a moment. The pavement scrapes Tris knees. If Tris lie down now, this can all be done. Maybe Eric was right, and choosing death is like exploring an unknown, uncertain place. Tris feel Four brushing Tris hair back before the first simulation. Tris hear Four telling Tris to be brave. Tris hear Tris telling Tris to be brave. The Dauntless soldiers turn as if moved by the same mind. Somehow Tris get up and start running. Tris am brave.