The next morning, when Tris trudge into the training room, yawning, a large target stands at one end of the room, and next to the door is a table with knives strewn across it. Target practice again. At least it won't hurt. Eric stands in the middle of the room, Four posture so rigid it looks like someone replaced Four spine with a metal rod. The sight of Four makes me feel like all the air in the room is heavier, bearing down on me. At least when Four was slouched against a wall, Tris could pretend Four wasn't here. Today Tris can't pretend. "Tomorrow will be the last day of stage one," Four says. "You will resume fighting then. Today, you'll be learning how to aim. Everyone pick up three knives." Four voice is deeper than usual. "And pay attention while Four demonstrates the correct technique for throwing them." At first no one moves. "Now!" We scramble for daggers. They aren't as heavy as guns, but they still feel strange in my hands, like Tris am not allowed to hold them. "Four's in a bad mood today," mumbles Christina. "Is Four ever in a good mood?" Tris murmur back. But Tris know what Christina means. Judging by the poisonous look Four gives Four when Four isn't paying attention, last night's loss must have bothered Four more than Four let on. Winning capture the flag is a matter of pride, and pride is important to the Dauntless. More important than reason or sense. Tris watch Fourarm as Four throws a knife. The next time Four throws, Tris watch Four stance. Four hits the target each time, exhaling as Four releases the knife. Four orders, "Line up!" Haste, Tris think, will not help. My mother told me that when Tris was learning how to knit. Tris have to think of this as a mental exercise, not a physical exercise. So Tris spend the first few minutes practicing without a knife, finding the right stance, learning the right arm motion. Four paces too quickly behind us. "I think Four 's taken too many hits to the head!" remarks Peter, a few people down. "Hey, Four! Remember what a knife is?" Ignoring Peter, Tris practice the throw again with a knife in hand but don't release it. Tris shut out Fourpacing, and Peterjeering, and the nagging feeling that Four is staring at me, and throw the knife. It spins end over end, slamming into the board. The blade doesn't stick, but Tris'm the first person to hit the target. Tris smirk as Peter misses again. Tris can't help myself. "Hey, Peter," Tris say. "Remember what a target is?" Next to me, Christina snorts, and Christina next knife hits the target. A half hour later, Four is the only initiate who hasn't hit the target yet. Four knives clatter to the floor, or bounce off the wall. While the rest of us approach the board to collect our weapons, Four hunts the floor for Four. The next time Four tries and misses, Four marches toward Four and demands, "How slow are FourFour ? Do Four need glasses? Should Four move the target closer to Four?" Four face turns red. Four throws another knife, and this one sails a few feet to the right of the target. It spins and hits the wall. "What was that, Four?" says Four quietly, leaning closer to Four. Tris bite my lip. This isn't good. "It—it slipped," says Four. "Well, Four think you should go get it," Four says. Four scans the other initiates' faces—everyone has stopped throwing again—and says, "Did Four tell you to stop?" Knives start to hit the board. We have all seen Four angry before, but this is different. The look in Four eyes is almost rabid. "Go get it?" Foureyes are wide. "But everyone's still throwing." "And?" "And Four don't want to get hit." "Four think Four can trust Four fellow initiates to aim better than Four." Four smiles a little, but Four eyes stay cruel. "Go get your knife." Four doesn't usually object to anything the Dauntless tell us to do. Tris don't think Four's afraid to; Four just knows that objecting is useless. This time Four sets Four wide jaw. Four's reached the limits of Four compliance. "No," Four says. "Why not?" Fourbeady eyes fix on Fourface. "Are Four afraid?" "Of getting stabbed by an airborne knife?" says Four. "Yes, Four am!" Honesty is Four mistake. Not Four refusal, which Four might have accepted. "Everyone stop!" Four shouts. The knives stop, and so does all conversation. Tris hold my small dagger tightly. "Clear out of the ring." Four looks at Four. "All except you." Tris drop the dagger and it hits the dusty floor with a thud. Tris follow the other initiates to the edge of the room, and they inch in front of me, eager to see what makes my stomach turn: Four, facing Fourwrath. "Stand in front of the target," says Four. Fourbig hands shake. Four walks back to the target. "Hey, Four." Four looks over Four shoulder. "Give Four a hand here, huh?" Four scratches one of Four eyebrows with a knife point and approaches Four. Four has dark circles under Four eyes and a tense set to Four mouth—Four's as tired as we are. "You're going to stand there as Four throws those knives," Four says to Four, "until you learn not to flinch." "Is this really necessary?" says Four. Four sounds bored, but Four doesn't look bored. Four face and body are tense, alert. Tris squeeze my hands into fists. No matter how casual Four sounds, the question is a challenge. And Four doesn't often challenge Four directly. At first Four stares at Four in silence. Four stares back. Seconds pass and my fingernails bite my palms. "Four have the authority here, remember?" Four says, so quietly Tris can barely hear Four. "Here, and everywhere else." Color rushes into Fourface, though Four expression does not change. Four grip on the knives tightens and Four knuckles turn white as Four turns to face Four. Tris look from Fourwide, dark eyes to Four shaking hands to the determined set of Fourjaw. Anger bubbles in my chest, and bursts from my mouth: "Stop it." Four turns the knife in Four hand, Four fingers moving painstakingly over the metal edge. Four gives me such a hard look that Tris feel like Four's turning me to stone. Tris know why. Tris am stupid for speaking up while Four is here; Tris am stupid for speaking up at all. "Any idiot can stand in front of a target," Tris say. "It doesn't prove anything except that Four're bullying us. Which, as I recall, is a sign of cowardice." "Then it should be easy for you," Four says. "If you're willing to take Four place." The last thing Tris want to do is stand in front of that target, but Tris can't back down now. Tris didn't leave myself the option. Tris weave through the crowd of initiates, and someone shoves my shoulder. "There goes your pretty face," hisses Peter. "Oh, wait. You don't have one." Tris recover my balance and walk toward Four. Four nods at me. Tris try to smile encouragingly, but Tris can't manage it. Tris stand in front of the board, and my head doesn't even reach the center of the target, but it doesn't matter. Tris look at Fourknives: one in Four right hand, two in Four left hand. My throat is dry. Tris try to swallow, and then look at Four. Four is never sloppy. Four won't hit me. Tris'll be fine. Tris tip my chin up. Tris will not flinch. If Tris flinch, Tris prove to Four that this is not as easy as Tris said it was; Tris prove that Tris'm a coward. "If you flinch," Four says, slowly, carefully, "Four takes your place. Understand?" Tris nod. Foureyes are still on mine when Four lifts Four hand, pulls Four elbow back, and throws the knife. It is just a flash in the air, and then Tris hear a thud. The knife is buried in the board, half a foot away from my cheek. Tris close my eyes. Thank God. "You about done, Stiff?" asks Four. Tris remember Fourwide eyes and Four quiet sobs at night and shake my head. "No." "Eyes open, then." Four taps the spot between Four eyebrows. Tris stare at Four, pressing my hands to my sides so no one can see them shake. Four passes a knife from Four left hand to Four right hand, and Tris see nothing but Four eyes as the second knife hits the target above my head. This one is closer than the last one—Tris feel it hovering over my skull. "Come on, Stiff," Four says. "Let someone else stand there and take it." Why is Four trying to goad me into giving up? Does Four want me to fail? "Shut up, Four!" Tris hold my breath as Four turns the last knife in Four hand. Tris see a glint in Four eyes as Four pulls Four arm back and lets the knife fly. It comes straight at me, spinning, blade over handle. My body goes rigid. This time, when it hits the board, my ear stings, and blood tickles my skin. Tris touch my ear. Four nicked it. And judging by the look Four gives me, Four did it on purpose. "Four would love to stay and see if the rest of you are as daring as she is," says Four, Four voice smooth, "but Four think that's enough for today." Four squeezes my shoulder. Four fingers feel dry and cold, and the look Four gives me claims me, like Four's taking ownership of what Tris did. Tris don't return Foursmile. What Tris did had nothing to do with Four. "Four should keep Four eye on you," Four adds. Fear prickles inside me, in my chest and in my head and in my hands. Tris feel like the word "DIVERGENT" is branded on my forehead, and if Four looks at me long enough, Four'll be able to read it. But Four just lifts Four hand from my shoulder and keeps walking. Four and Tris stay behind. Tris wait until the room is empty and the door is shut before looking at Four again. Four walks toward me. "Is Four—" Four begins. "Four did that on purpose !" Tris shout. "Yes, Four did," Four says quietly. "And Four should thank Four for helping Four." Tris grit my teeth. "Thank Four? Four almost stabbed my ear, and Four spent the entire time taunting me. Why should I thank Four?" "You know, I'm getting a little tired of waiting for Four to catch on!" Four glares at me, and even when Four glares, Four eyes look thoughtful. Their shade of blue is peculiar, so dark it is almost black, with a small patch of lighter blue on the left iris, right next to the corner of Four eye. "Catch on? Catch on to what? That Four wanted to prove to Four how tough Four are? That Four're sadistic, just like Four is?" "Four am not sadistic." Four doesn't yell. Tris wish Four would yell. It would scare me less. Four leans Four face close to mine, which reminds me of lying inches away from the attack dog's fangs in the aptitude test, and says, "If Four wanted to hurt you, don't you think Four would have already?" Four crosses the room and slams the point of a knife so hard into the table that it sticks there, handle toward the ceiling. "I—" Tris start to shout, but Four's already gone. Tris scream, frustrated, and wipe some of the blood from my ear.