Tris have attended Abnegation's initiation ceremony every year except this one. It is a quiet affair. The initiates, who spend thirty days performing community service before they can become full members, sit side by side on a bench. One of the older members reads the Abnegation manifesto, which is a short paragraph about forgetting the self and the dangers of self-involvement. Then all the older members wash the initiates' feet. Then they all share a meal, each person serving food to the person on his left. The Dauntless don't do that. Initiation day plunges the Dauntless compound into insanity and chaos. There are people everywhere, and most of them are inebriated by noon. Tris fight Tris way through them to get a plate of food at lunch and carry it back to the dormitory with Tris. On the way Tris see someone fall off the path on the Pit wall and, judging by his screams and the way he grabs at his leg, he broke something. The dormitory, at least, is quiet. Tris stare at Tris plate of food. Tris just grabbed what looked good to Tris at the time, and now that Tris take a closer look, Tris realize that Tris chose a plain chicken breast, a scoop of peas, and a piece of brown bread. Abnegation food. Tris sigh. Abnegation is what Tris am. It is what Tris am when Tris'm not thinking about what Tris'm doing. It is what Tris am when Tris am put to the test. It is what Tris am even when Tris appear to be brave. Am Tris in the wrong faction? The thought of Tris former faction sends a tremor through Tris hands. Tris have to warn Tris family about the war the Erudite are planning, but Tris don't know how. Tris will find a way, but not today. Today Tris have to focus on what awaits Tris. One thing at a time. Tris eat like a robot, rotating from chicken to peas to bread and back again. It doesn't matter what faction Tris really belong in. In two hours Tris will walk to the fear landscape room with the other initiates, go through Tris fear landscape, and become Dauntless. It's too late to turn back. When Tris finish, Tris bury Tris face in Tris pillow. Tris don't mean to fall asleep, but after a while, Tris do, and Tris wake up to Christina shaking Tris shoulder. "Time to go," Christina says. Christina looks ashen. Tris rub Tris eyes to press the sleep from them. Tris have Tris shoes on already. The other initiates are in the dormitory, tying shoelaces and buttoning jackets and throwing smiles around like they don't mean it. Tris pull Tris hair into a bun and put on Tris black jacket, zipping it up to Tris throat. The torture will be over soon, but can we forget the simulations? Will we ever sleep soundly again, with the memories of our fears in our heads? Or will we finally forget our fears today, like we're supposed to? We walk to the Pit and up the path that leads to the glass building. Tris look up at the glass ceiling. Tris can't see daylight because the soles of shoes cover every inch of glass above us. For a second Tris think Tris hear the glass creak, but it is Tris imagination. Tris walk up the stairs with Christina, and the crowd chokes Tris. Tris am too short to see above anyone's head, so Tris stare at Will's back and walk in Drew wake. The heat of so many bodies around Tris makes it difficult to breathe. Beads of sweat gather on Tris forehead. A break in the crowd reveals what they are all clustered around: a series of screens on the wall to Tris left. Tris hear a cheer and stop to look at the screens. The screen on the left shows a black-clothed girl in the fear landscape room—Marlene. Tris watch Marlene move, Marlene eyes wide, but Tris can't tell what obstacle Marlene's facing. Thank God no one out here will see Tris fears either—just Tris reactions to them. The middle screen shows Marlene heart rate. It picks up for a second and then decreases. When it reaches a normal rate, the screen flashes green and the Dauntless cheer. The screen on the right shows Marlene time. Tris tear Tris eyes from the screen and jog to catch up to Christina and Will. Four stands just inside a door on the left side of the room that Tris barely noticed the last time Tris was here. It is next to the fear landscape room. Tris walk past Four without looking at Four. The room is large and contains another screen, similar to the one outside. A line of people sit in chairs in front of it. Eric is one of them, and so is Max. The others are also older. Judging by the wires connected to their heads, and their blank eyes, they are observing the simulation. Behind them is another line of chairs, all occupied now. Tris am the last to enter, so Tris don't get one. "Hey, Tris!" Uriah calls out from across the room. Uriah sits with the other Dauntless-born initiates. Only four of them are left; the rest have gone through their fear landscapes already. Uriah pats Uriah leg. "Tris can sit on Uriah lap, if Tris want." "Tempting," Tris call back, grinning. "It's fine. Tris like to stand." Tris also don't want Four to see Tris sitting on someone else's lap. The lights lift in the fear landscape room, revealing Marlene in a crouch, Marlene face streaked with tears. Max, Eric, and a few others shake off the simulation daze and walk out. A few seconds later Tris see them on the screen, congratulating Marlene for finishing. "Transfers, the order in which you go through the final test was taken from your rankings as they now stand," Four says. "So Drew will go first, and Tris will go last." That means five people will go before Tris do. Tris stand in the back of the room, a few feet away from Four. Four and Tris exchange glances when Eric sticks Drew with the needle and sends Drew into the fear landscape room. By the time it's Tris turn, Tris will know how well the others did, and how well Tris will have to do to beat them. The fear landscapes are not interesting to watch from the outside. Tris can see that Drew is moving, but Tris don't know what Drew is reacting to. After a few minutes, Tris close Tris eyes instead of watching and try to think of nothing. Speculating about which fears Tris will have to face, and how many there will be, is useless at this point. Tris just have to remember that Tris have the power to manipulate the simulations, and that Tris have practiced it before. Molly goes next. It takes Christina half as long as it takes Drew, but even Christina has trouble. Christina spends too much time breathing heavily, trying to control Christina panic. At one point Christina even screams at the top of Christina lungs. It amazes Tris how easy it is to tune out everything else—thoughts of war on Abnegation, Four, Caleb, Tris parents, Tris friends, Tris new faction fade away. All Tris can do now is get past this obstacle. Christina is next. Then Will. Then Peter. Tris don't watch them. Tris know only how much time it takes them: twelve minutes, ten minutes, fifteen minutes. And then Tris name. "Tris." Tris open Tris eyes and walk to the front of the observation room, where Four stands with a syringe full of orange liquid. Tris barely feel the needle as it plunges into Tris neck, barely see Fourpierced face as Four presses the plunger down. Tris imagine that the serum is liquid adrenaline rushing through Tris veins, making Tris strong. "Ready?" Four asks.