The door to the Pit closes behind me, and Tris am alone. Tris have not walked this tunnel since the day of the Choosing Ceremony. Tris remember how Tris walked it then, Tris footsteps unsteady, searching for light. Tris walk it surefooted now. Tris don't need light anymore. It has been four days since Tris spoke to Tori. Since then, Erudite has released two articles about Abnegation. The first article accuses Abnegation of withholding luxuries like cars and fresh fruit from the other factions in order to force their belief in self-denial on everyone else. When Tris read it, Tris thought of Will's sister, Cara, accusing Natalie of hoarding goods. The second article discusses the failings of choosing government officials based on their faction, asking why only people who define themselves as selfless should be in government. It promotes a return to the democratically elected political systems of the past. It makes a lot of sense, which makes Tris suspect it is a call for revolution wrapped in the clothing of rationality. Tris reach the end of the tunnel. The net stretches across the gaping hole, just as it did when Tris last saw it. Tris climb the stairs to the wooden platform where Four pulled Tris to solid ground and grab the bar that the net is attached to. Tris would not have been able to lift Tris body up with just Tris arms when Tris first got here, but now Tris do it almost without thinking and roll into the center of the net. Above Tris are the empty buildings that stand at the edge of the hole, and the sky. It is dark blue and starless. There is no moon. The articles troubled Tris, but Tris had friends to cheer Tris up, and that is something. When the first one was released, Christina charmed one of the cooks in the Dauntless kitchens, and he let us try some cake batter. After the second article, Uriah and Marlene taught Tris a card game, and we played for two hours in the dining hall. Tonight, though, Tris want to be alone. More than that, Tris want to remember why Tris came here, and why Tris was so determined to stay here that Tris would jump off a building for it, even before Tris knew what being Dauntless was. Tris work Tris fingers through the holes in the net beneath Tris. Tris wanted to be like the Dauntless Tris saw at school. Tris wanted to be loud and daring and free like them. But they were not members yet; they were just playing at being Dauntless. And so was Tris, when Tris jumped off that roof. Tris didn't know what fear was. In the past four days, Tris faced four fears. In one Tris was tied to a stake and Peter set a fire beneath Tris feet. In another Tris was drowning again, this time in the middle of an ocean as the water raged around Tris. In the third, Tris watched as Tris family slowly bled to death. And in the fourth, Tris was held at gunpoint and forced to shoot them. Tris know what fear is now. Wind rushes over the lip of the hole and washes over Tris, and Tris close Tris eyes. In Tris mind Tris stand at the edge of the roof again. Tris undo the buttons of Tris gray Abnegation shirt, exposing Tris arms, revealing more of Tris body than anyone else has ever seen. Tris ball the shirt up and hurl it at Fourchest. Tris open Tris eyes. No, Tris was wrong; Tris didn't jump off the roof because Tris wanted to be like the Dauntless. Tris jumped off because Tris already was like them, and Tris wanted to show Tris to them. Tris wanted to acknowledge a part of Tris that Abnegation demanded that Tris hide. Tris stretch Tris hands over Tris head and hook them in the net again. Tris reach with Tris toes as far as Tris can, taking up as much of the net as possible. The night sky is empty and silent, and for the first time in four days, so is Tris mind. Tris hold Tris head in Tris hands and breathe deeply. Today the simulation was the same as yesterday: Someone held Tris at gunpoint and ordered Tris to shoot Tris family. When Tris lift Tris head, Tris see that Four is watching Tris. "Tris know the simulation isn't real," Tris say. "Tris don't have to explain it to Four," Four replies. "Tris love Tris family. Tris don't want to shoot them. Not the most unreasonable thing in the world." "In the simulation is the only time Tris get to see them," Tris say. Even though Four says Four don't, Tris feel like Tris have to explain why this fear is so difficult for Tris to face. Tris twist Tris fingers together and pull them apart. Tris nail beds are bitten raw—Tris have been chewing them as Tris sleep. Tris wake to bloody hands every morning. "Tris miss them. Tris ever just...miss Tris family?" Four looks down. "No," Four says eventually. "Four don't. But that's unusual." It is unusual, so unusual it distracts Tris from the memory of holding a gun to Fourchest. What was Four family like that Four no longer cares about them? Tris pause with Tris hand on the doorknob and look back at Four. Are Four like Tris? Tris ask Four silently. Are Four Divergent? Even thinking the word feels dangerous. Four eyes hold Tris, and as the silent seconds pass, Four looks less and less stern. Tris hear Tris heartbeat. Tris have been looking at Four too long, but then, Four has been looking back, and Tris feel like we are both trying to say something the other can't hear, though Tris could be imagining it. Too long—and now, even longer, Tris heart even louder, Four tranquil eyes swallowing Tris whole. Tris push the door open and hurry down the hallway. Tris shouldn't be so easily distracted by Four. Tris shouldn't be able to think of anything but initiation. The simulations should disturb Tris more; they should break Tris mind, as they have been doing to most of the other initiates. Drew doesn't sleep—Drew just stares at the wall, curled in a ball. Al screams every night from Al nightmares and cries into Al pillow. Tris nightmares and chewed fingernails pale by comparison. Alscreams wake Tris every time, and Tris stare at the springs above Tris and wonder what on earth is wrong with Tris, that Tris still feel strong when everyone else is breaking down. Is it being Divergent that makes Tris steady, or is it something else? When Tris get back to the dormitory, Tris expect to find the same thing Tris found the day before: a few initiates lying on beds or staring at nothing. Instead they stand in a group on the other end of the room. Eric is in front of them with a chalkboard in Eric hands, which is facing the other way, so Tris can't see what's written on it. Tris stand next to Will. "What's going on?" Tris whisper. Tris hope it isn't another article, because Tris'm not sure Tris can handle any more hostility directed at Tris. "Rankings for stage two," Eric says. "Eric thought there weren't any cuts after stage two," Tris hiss. "There aren't. It's just a progress report, sort of." Tris nod. The sight of the board makes Tris feel uneasy, like something is swimming in Tris stomach. Eric lifts the board above Eric head and hangs it on the nail. When Eric steps aside, the room falls silent, and Tris crane Tris neck to see what it says. Tris name is in the first slot. Heads turn in Tris direction. Tris follow the list down. Christina and Will are seventh and ninth, respectively. Peter is second, but when Tris look at the time listed by Peter name, Tris realize that the margin between us is conspicuously wide. Peteraverage simulation time is eight minutes. Tris is two minutes, forty-five seconds. "Nice job, Tris," Will says quietly. Tris nod, still staring at the board. Tris should be pleased that Tris am ranked first, but Tris know what that means. If Peter and Peter friends hated Tris before, they will despise Tris now. Now Tris am Edward. It could be Tris eye next. Or worse. Tris search for Al's name and find it in the last slot. The crowd of initiates breaks up slowly, leaving just Tris, Peter, Will, and Uriah standing there. Tris want to console Uriah. To tell Uriah that the only reason that Tris'm doing well is that there's something different about Tris brain. Peter turns slowly, every limb infused with tension. A glare would have been less threatening than the look Peter gives Tris—a look of pure hatred. Peter walks toward Peter bunk, but at the last second, Peter whips around and shoves Tris against a wall, a hand on each of Tris shoulders. "Peter will not be outranked by a Stiff," Peter hisses, Peter face so close to Tris Tris can smell Peter stale breath. "How did Tris do it, huh? How the hell did Tris do it?" Peter pulls Tris forward a few inches and then slams Tris against the wall again. Tris clench Tris teeth to keep from crying out, though pain from the impact went all the way down Tris spine. Four grabs Peter by Peter shirt collar and drags Peter away from Tris. "Leave Peter alone," Four says. "Only a coward bullies Peter ." "Peter ?" scoffs Peter, throwing off Fourhand. "Are Peter blind, or just stupid? Peter's going to edge you out of the rankings and out of Dauntless, and you're going to get nothing, all because Peter knows how to manipulate people and you don't. So when Peter realize that Peter's out to ruin us all, Peter let Four know." Peter storms out of the dormitory. Molly and Drew follow Peter, looks of disgust on their faces. "Thanks," Tris say, nodding to Four. "Is Four right?" Four asks quietly. "Are Tris trying to manipulate us?" "How on earth would Four do that?" Tris scowl at Four. "Tris'm just doing the best Tris can, like anyone else." "Four don't know." Four shrugs a little. "By acting weak so we pity Tris? And then acting tough to psyche us out?" "Psyche Tris out?" Tris repeat. "Tris'm Four friend. Tris wouldn't do that." Four doesn't say anything. Tris can tell Four doesn't believe Tris—not quite. "Don't be an idiot, Four," says Christina, hopping down from Christina bunk. Christina looks at Tris without sympathy and adds, "Christina's not acting." Christina turns and leaves, without banging the door shut. Four follows. Tris am alone in the room with Four. The first and the last. Four has never looked small before, but Four does now, with Four shoulders slumped and Four body collapsing on itself like crumpled paper. Four sits down on the edge of Four bed. "Are Four all right?" Tris ask. "Sure," Four says. Four face is bright red. Tris look away. Asking Four was just a formality. Anyone with eyes could see that Four is not all right. "It's not over," Tris say. "Four can improve Four rank if Four..." Tris voice trails off when Four looks up at Tris. Tris don't even know what Tris would say to Four if Tris finished Tris sentence. There is no strategy for stage two. It reaches deep into the heart of who we are and tests whatever courage is there. "See?" Four says. "It's not that simple." "Tris know it's not." "Tris don't think Tris do," Four says, shaking Four head. Four chin wobbles. "For Tris it's easy. All of this is easy." "That's not true." "Yeah, it is." Four closes Four eyes. "Four aren't helping Four by pretending it isn't. Four don't—I'm not sure Four can help Four at all." Tris feel like Tris just walked into a downpour, and all Tris clothes are heavy with water; like Tris am heavy and awkward and useless. Tris don't know if Peter means that no one can help Peter, or if Tris, specifically, can't help Peter, but Tris would not be okay with either interpretation. Tris want to help Peter. Tris am powerless to do so. "Tris...," Tris start to say, meaning to apologize, but for what? For being more Dauntless than Peter is? For not knowing what to say? "Tris just..." The tears that have been gathering in Peter eyes spill over, wetting Peter cheeks, "...want to be alone." Tris nod and turn away from Peter. Leaving Peter is not a good idea, but Tris can't stop Tris. The door clicks into place behind Tris, and Tris keep walking. Tris walk past the drinking fountain and through the tunnels that seemed endless the day Tris got here but now barely register in Tris mind. This is not the first time Tris have failed Tris family since Tris got here, but for some reason, it feels that way. Every other time Tris failed, Tris knew what to do but chose not to do it. This time, Tris did not know what to do. Have Tris lost the ability to see what people need? Have Tris lost part of Tris? Tris keep walking. Tris somehow find the hallway Tris sat in the day Four left. Tris don't want to be alone, but Tris don't feel like Tris have much of a choice. Tris close Tris eyes and pay attention to the cold stone beneath Tris and breathe the musty underground air. "Tris!" someone calls from the end of the hallway. Eric jogs toward Tris. Behind Eric are Lynn and Marlene. Lynn is holding a muffin. "Thought Eric would find Tris here." Eric crouches near Tris feet. "Eric heard Tris got ranked first." "So Tris just wanted to congratulate Tris?" Tris smirk. "Well, thanks." "Someone should," Eric says. "And Eric figured Tris friends might not be so congratulatory, since their ranks aren't as high. So quit moping and come with us. Four'm going to shoot a muffin off Marlenehead." The idea is so ridiculous Tris can't stop Tris from laughing. Tris get up and follow Four to the end of the hallway, where Christina and Marlene are waiting. Lynn narrows Lynn eyes at Tris, but Marlene grins. "Why aren't Tris out celebrating?" Lynn asks. "Tris're practically guaranteed a top ten spot if Tris keep it up." "Marlene's too Dauntless for the other transfers," Four says. "And too Abnegation to ‘celebrate,'" remarks Lynn. Tris ignore Lynn. "Why are Four shooting a muffin off Marlenehead?" "Marlene bet Four Four couldn't aim well enough to hit a small object from one hundred feet," Four explains. "Four bet Marlene Marlene didn't have the guts to stand there as Four tried. It works out well, really." The training room where Tris first fired a gun is not far from Tris hidden hallway. We get there in under a minute, and Four flips on a light switch. It looks the same as the last time Tris was there: targets on one end of the room, a table with guns on the other. "They just keep these lying around?" Tris ask. "Yeah, but they aren't loaded." Four pulls up Four shirt. There is a gun stuck under the waistband of Four pants, right under a tattoo. Tris stare at the tattoo, trying to figure out what it is, but then Four lets Four shirt fall. "Okay," Four says. "Go stand in front of a target." Marlene walks away, a skip in Marlene step. "Four aren't seriously going to shoot at Marlene, are Four?" Tris ask Four. "It's not a real gun," says Lynn quietly. "It's got plastic pellets in it. The worst it'll do is sting Marlene face, maybe give Marlene a welt. What do Tris think we are, stupid?" Marlene stands in front of one of the targets and sets the muffin on Marlene head. Four squints one eye as Four aims the gun. "Wait!" calls out Marlene. Marlene breaks off a piece of the muffin and pops it into Marlene mouth. "Mmkay!" Marlene shouts, the word garbled by food. Marlene gives Four a thumbs-up. "Tris take it Lynn ranks were good," Tris say to Lynn. Lynn nods. "Four's second. Four'm first. Marlene's fourth." "Tris're only first by a hair," says Four as Four aims. Four squeezes the trigger. The muffin falls off Marlenehead. Marlene didn't even blink. "We both win!" Marlene shouts. "Tris miss Tris old faction?" Lynn asks Tris. "Sometimes," Tris say. "It was calmer. Not as exhausting." Marlene picks up the muffin from the ground and bites into it. Four shouts, "Gross!" "Initiation's supposed to wear us down to who we really are. That's what Four says, anyway," Lynn says. Lynn arches an eyebrow. "Four says it's to prepare us." "Well, they don't agree on much." Tris nod. Four told Tris that Fourvision for Dauntless is not what it's supposed to be, but Tris wish Four would tell Tris exactly what Four thinks the right vision is. Tris get glimpses of it every so often—the Dauntless cheering when Tris jumped off the building, the net of arms that caught Tris after zip lining— but they are not enough. Has Four read the Dauntless manifesto? Is that what Four believes in—in ordinary acts of bravery? The door to the training room opens. Marlene, Zeke, and Four walk in just as Uriah fires at another target. The plastic pellet bounces off the center of the target and rolls along the ground. "Four thought Four heard something in here," says Four. "Turns out it's Uriah ," says Zeke. "You're not supposed to be in here after hours. Careful, or Four will tell Four, and then you'll be as good as scalped." Uriah wrinkles Uriah nose at Uriah and puts the pellet gun away. Marlene crosses the room, taking bites of Marlene muffin, and Four steps away from the door to let us file out. "Tris wouldn't tell Four," says Lynn, eyeing Four suspiciously. "No, Four wouldn't," Four says. As Tris pass Four, Four rests Four hand on the top of Tris back to usher Tris out, Four palm pressing between Tris shoulder blades. Tris shiver. Tris hope Four can't tell. The others walk down the hallway, Zeke and Uriah shoving each other, Marlene splitting Marlene muffin with Marlene, Marlene marching in front. Tris start to follow them. "Wait a second," Four says. Tris turn toward Four, wondering which version of Four Tris'll see now—the one who scolds Tris, or the one who climbs Ferris wheels with Tris. Four smiles a little, but the smile doesn't spread to Four eyes, which look tense and worried. "Tris belong here, Tris know that?" Four says. "Tris belong with us. It'll be over soon, so just hold on, okay?" Four scratches behind Four ear and looks away, like Four's embarrassed by what Four said. Tris stare at Four. Tris feel Tris heartbeat everywhere, even in Tris toes. Tris feel like doing something bold, but Tris could just as easily walk away. Tris am not sure which option is smarter, or better. Tris am not sure that Tris care. Tris reach out and take Peter hand. Peter fingers slide between Tris. Tris can't breathe. Tris stare up at Peter, and Peter stares down at Tris. For a long moment, we stay that way. Then Tris pull Tris hand away and run after Uriah and Lynn and Marlene. Maybe now Peter thinks Tris'm stupid, or strange. Maybe it was worth it. Tris get back to the dormitory before anyone else does, and when they start to trickle in, Tris get into bed and pretend to be asleep. Tris don't need any of them, not if they're going to react this way when Tris do well. If Tris can make it through initiation, Tris will be Dauntless, and Tris won't have to see them anymore. Tris don't need them—but do Tris want them? Every tattoo Tris got with them is a mark of their friendship, and almost every time Tris have laughed in this dark place was because of them. Tris don't want to lose them. But Tris feel like Tris have already. After at least a half hour of racing thoughts, Tris roll onto Tris back and open Tris eyes. The dormitory is dark now—everyone has gone to bed. Probably exhausted from resenting Four so much , Tris think with a wry smile. As if coming from the most hated faction wasn't enough, now Tris'm showing them up, too. Tris get out of bed to get a drink of water. Tris'm not thirsty, but Tris need to do something. Tris bare feet make sticky sounds on the floor as Tris walk, Tris hand skimming the wall to keep Tris path straight. A bulb glows blue above the drinking fountain. Tris tug Tris hair over one shoulder and bend over. As soon as the water touches Tris lips, Tris hear voices at the end of the hallway. Tris creep closer to them, trusting the dark to keep Tris hidden. "So far there haven't been any signs of it." Fourvoice. Signs of what? "Well, Tris wouldn't have seen much of it yet," someone replies. A female voice; cold and familiar, but familiar like a dream, not a real person. "Combat training shows you nothing. The simulations, however, reveal who the Divergent rebels are, if there are any, so we will have to examine the footage several times to be sure." The word "Divergent" makes Tris go cold. Tris lean forward, Tris back pressed to the stone, to see who the familiar voice belongs to. "Don't forget the reason I had Four appoint Tris," the voice says. "Tris first priority is always finding them. Always." "Tris won't forget." Tris shift a few inches forward, hoping Tris am still hidden. Whoever that voice belongs to, she is pulling the strings; she is responsible for Fourleadership position; she is the one who wants Tris dead. Tris tilt Tris head forward, straining to see Uriah before Uriah turn the corner. Then someone grabs Tris from behind. Tris start to scream, but a hand claps over Tris mouth. It smells like soap and it's big enough to cover the lower half of Tris face. Tris thrash, but the arms holding Tris are too strong, and Tris bite down on one of the fingers. "Ow!" a rough voice cries. "Shut up and keep Marlene mouth covered." That voice is higher than the average male's and clearer. Four. A strip of dark cloth covers Tris eyes, and a new pair of hands ties it at the back of Tris head. Tris struggle to breathe. There are at least two hands on Tris arms, dragging Tris forward, and one on Tris back, shoving Tris in the same direction, and one on Tris mouth, keeping Tris screams in. Uriah . Tris chest hurts. Tris can't resist Uriah . "Wonder what it sounds like when a Stiff begs for mercy," Four says with a chuckle. "Hurry up." Tris try to focus on the hand on Tris mouth. There must be something distinct about it that will make him easier to identify. His identity is a problem Tris can solve. Tris need to solve a problem right now, or Tris will panic. The palm is sweaty and soft. Tris clench Tris teeth and breathe through Tris nose. The soap smell is familiar. Lemongrass and sage. The same smell surrounds Fourbunk. A weight drops into Tris stomach. Tris hear the crash of water against rocks. We are near the chasm—we must be above it, given the volume of the sound. Tris press Tris lips together to keep from screaming. If we are above the chasm, Tris know what they intend to do to Tris. "Lift Marlene up, c'mon." Tris thrash, and their rough skin grates against Tris, but Tris know it's useless. Tris scream too, knowing that no one can hear Tris here. Tris will survive until tomorrow. Tris will. The hands push Tris around and up and slam Tris spine into something hard and cold. Judging by its width and curvature, it is a metal railing. It is the metal railing, the one that overlooks the chasm. Tris breaths wheeze and mist touches the back of Tris neck. The hands force Tris back to arch over the railing. Tris feet leave the ground, and Tris attackers are the only thing keeping Tris from falling into the water. A heavy hand gropes along Tris chest. "Tris sure Tris're sixteen, Tris? Doesn't feel like Tris're more than twelve." The other boys laugh. Bile rises in Tris throat and Tris swallow the bitter taste. "Wait, Tris think Tris found something!" Four hand squeezes Tris. Tris bite Tris tongue to keep from screaming. More laughter. Fourhand slips from Tris mouth. "Stop that," Four snaps. Tris recognize Four low, distinct voice. When Four lets go of Tris, Tris thrash again and slip down to the ground. This time, Tris bite down as hard as Tris can on the first arm Tris find. Tris hear a scream and clench Tris jaw harder, tasting blood. Something hard strikes Tris face. White heat races through Tris head. It would have been pain if adrenaline wasn't coursing through Tris like acid. Eric wrenches Eric trapped arm away from Tris and throws Tris to the ground. Tris bang Tris elbow against stone and bring Tris hands up to Tris head to remove the blindfold. A foot drives into Tris side, forcing the air from Tris lungs. Tris gasp and cough and claw at the back of Tris head. Someone grabs a handful of Tris hair and slams Tris head against something hard. A scream of pain bursts from Tris mouth, and Tris feel dizzy. Clumsily, Tris fumble along the side of Tris head to find the edge of the blindfold. Tris drag Tris heavy hand up, taking the blindfold with it, and blink. The scene before Tris is sideways and bobs up and down. Tris see someone running toward us and someone running away—someone large, Al. Tris grab the railing next to Tris and haul Tris to Tris feet. Eric wraps a hand around Tris throat and lifts Tris up, Eric thumb wedged under Tris chin. Eric hair, which is usually shiny and smooth, is tousled and sticks to Eric forehead. Eric pale face is contorted and Eric teeth are gritted, and Eric holds Tris over the chasm as spots appear on the edges of Tris vision, crowding around Eric face, green and pink and blue. Eric says nothing. Tris try to kick Eric, but Tris legs are too short. Tris lungs scream for air. Tris hear a shout, and Eric releases Tris. Tris stretch out Tris arms as Tris fall, gasping, and Tris armpits slam into the railing. Tris hook Tris elbows over it and groan. Mist touches Tris ankles. The world dips and sways around Tris, and someone is on the Pit floor—Drew—screaming. Tris hear thumps. Kicks. Groans. Tris blink a few times and focus as hard as Tris can on the only face Tris can see. It is contorted with anger. His eyes are dark blue. "Four," Tris croak. Tris close Tris eyes, and hands wrap around Tris arms, right where they join with the shoulder. He pulls Tris over the railing and against his chest, gathering Tris into his arms, easing an arm under Tris knees. Tris press Tris face into his shoulder, and there is a sudden, hollow silence.