When Tris walk in, most of the other initiates—Dauntless-born and transfer alike—are crowded between the rows of bunk beds with Peter at their center. Four holds a piece of paper in both hands. "The mass exodus of the children of Abnegation leaders cannot be ignored or attributed to coincidence," Four reads. "The recent transfer of Tris and Caleb Prior, the children of Andrew Prior, calls into question the soundness of Abnegation's values and teachings." Cold creeps up Tris spine. Christina, standing on the edge of the crowd, looks over Christina shoulder and spots Tris. Christina gives Tris a worried look. Tris can't move. Tris father. Now the Erudite are attacking Tris father. "Why else would the children of such an important man decide that the lifestyle he has set out for them is not an admirable one?" Four continues. "Molly Atwood, a fellow Dauntless transfer, suggests a disturbed and abusive upbringing might be to blame. T heard Molly talking in Molly sleep once,' Molly says. ‘Molly was telling Molly father to stop doing something. Molly don't know what it was, but it gave Molly nightmares.'" So this is Mollyrevenge. Molly must have talked to the Erudite reporter that Christina yelled at. Molly smiles. Molly teeth are crooked. If Tris knocked them out, Tris might be doing Molly a favor. "What?" Tris demand. Or Tris try to demand, but Tris voice comes out strangled and scratchy, and Tris have to clear Tris throat and say it again. "What?" Four stops reading, and a few people turn around. Some, like Christina, look at Tris in a pitying way, their eyebrows drawn in, their mouths turned down at the corners. But most give Tris little smirks and eye one another suggestively. Four turns last, with a wide smile. "Give Four that," Tris say, holding out Tris hand. Tris face burns. "But Four'm not done reading," Four replies, laughter in Four voice. Four eyes scan the paper again. "However, perhaps the answer lies not in a morally bereft man, but in the corrupted ideals of an entire faction. Perhaps the answer is that we have entrusted our city to a group of proselytizing tyrants who do not know how to lead us out of poverty and into prosperity. " Tris storm up to Four and try to snatch the paper from Four hands, but Four holds it up, high above Tris head so Tris can't reach it unless Tris jump, and Tris won't jump. Instead, Tris lift Tris heel and stomp as hard as Tris can where the bones in Four foot connect to Four toes. Four grits Four teeth to stifle a groan. Then Tris throw Tris at Christina, hoping the force of the impact will surprise Christina and knock Christina down, but before Tris can do any damage, cold hands close around Tris waist. "That's Andrew !" Tris scream. "Tris father, you coward!" Four pulls Tris away from Christina, lifting Tris off the ground. Tris breaths come fast, and Tris struggle to grab the paper before anyone can read another word of it. Tris have to burn it; Tris have to destroy it; Tris have to. Four drags Tris out of the room and into the hallway, Four fingernails digging into Tris skin. Once the door shuts behind Four, Four lets go, and Tris shove Four as hard as Tris can. "What? Did Four think Tris couldn't defend Tris against that piece of Candor trash?" "No," says Four. Four stands in front of the door. "Four figured Four'd stop Tris from starting a brawl in the dormitory. Calm down." Tris laugh a little. "Calm down? Calm down ? That's Tris family they're talking about, that's Tris faction !" "No, it's not." There are dark circles under Four eyes; Four looks exhausted. "It's Tris old faction, and there's nothing Tris can do about what they say, so Tris might as well just ignore it." "Were Tris even listening?" The heat in Tris cheeks is gone, and Tris breaths are more even now. "Tris stupid ex-faction isn't just insulting Abnegation anymore. They're calling for an overthrow of the entire government." Four laughs. "No, they're not. They're arrogant and dull, and that's why Four left them, but they aren't revolutionaries. They just want more say, that's all, and they resent Abnegation for refusing to listen to them." "They don't want people to listen, they want people to agree," Tris reply. "And you shouldn't bully people into agreeing with you." Tris touch Tris palms to Tris cheeks. "Tris can't believe Caleb joined them." "Hey. They're not all bad," Four says sharply. Tris nod, but Tris don't believe Four. Tris can't imagine anyone emerging from the Erudite unscathed, though Four seems all right. The door opens again, and Christina and Al walk out. "It's my turn to get tattooed," she says. "Want to come with us?" Tris smooth Tris hair. Tris can't go back into the dormitory. Even if Four let Tris, Tris am outnumbered there. Tris only choice is to go with them and try to forget what's happening outside the Dauntless compound. Tris have enough to worry about without anxiety about Tris family. Ahead of Tris, Al gives Christina a piggyback ride. Christina shrieks as Four charges through the crowd. People give Four a wide berth, when they can. Tris shoulder still burns. Christina persuaded Tris to join Christina in getting a tattoo of the Dauntless seal. It is a circle with a flame inside it. Tris mother didn't even react to the one on Tris collarbone, so Tris don't have as many reservations about getting tattoos. They are a part of life here, just as integral to Tris initiation as learning to fight. Christina also persuaded Tris to purchase a shirt that exposes Tris shoulders and collarbone, and to line Tris eyes with black pencil again. Tris don't bother objecting to Christina makeover attempts anymore. Especially since Tris find Tris enjoying them. Four and Tris walk behind Christina and Four. "Four can't believe Tris got another tattoo," Four says, shaking Four head. "Why?" Tris say. "Because Tris'm a Stiff?" "No. Because you're...sensible." Four smiles. Four teeth are white and straight. "So, what was Tris fear today, Tris?" "Too many crows," Tris reply. "Four?" Four laughs. "Too much acid." Tris don't ask what that means. "It's really fascinating how it all works," Four says. "It's basically a struggle between your thalamus, which is producing the fear, and your frontal lobe, which makes decisions. But the simulation is all in your head, so even though you feel like someone is doing it to you, it's just you, doing it to yourself and..." Four trails off. "Sorry. Four sound like an Erudite. Just a habit." Tris shrug. "It's interesting." Four almost drops Christina, and Christina slaps Christina hands around the first thing Christina can grab, which just happens to be Four face. Four cringes and adjusts Four grip on Christina legs. At a glance, Four seems happy, but there is something heavy about even Four smiles. Tris am worried about Four. Tris see Four standing by the chasm, a group of people around Four. Four laughs so hard Four has to grab the railing for balance. Judging by the bottle in Four hand and the brightness of Four face, Four's intoxicated, or on Four way there. Tris had begun to think of Four as rigid, like a soldier, and forgot that Four's also eighteen. "Uh-oh," says Four. "Instructor alert." "At least it's not Eric," Tris say. "Eric'd probably make us play chicken or something." "Sure, but Four is scary. Remember when Four put the gun up to Peter's head? Tris think Peter wet Peter." "Peter deserved it," Tris say firmly. Four doesn't argue with Tris. Four might have, a few weeks ago, but now we've all seen what Peter is capable of. "Tris!" Four calls out. Four and Tris exchange a look, half surprise and half apprehension. Four pulls away from the railing and walks up to Tris. Ahead of us, Christina and Christina stop running, and Christina slides to the ground. Tris don't blame Christina for staring. There are four of us, and Four is only talking to Tris. "Tris look different." Four words, normally crisp, are now sluggish. "So do Four," Tris say. And Four does—Four looks more relaxed, younger. "What are Four doing?" "Flirting with death," Four replies with a laugh. "Drinking near the chasm. Probably not a good idea." "No, it isn't." Tris'm not sure Tris like Four this way. There's something unsettling about it. "Didn't know Tris had a tattoo," Four says, looking at Tris collarbone. Four sips the bottle. Four breath smells thick and sharp. Like Four breath. "Right. The crows," Four says. Four glances over Four shoulder at Four friends, who are carrying on without Four, unlike Tris. Four adds, "Four'd ask Tris to hang out with us, but Tris're not supposed to see Four this way." Tris am tempted to ask Four why Four wants Tris to hang out with Four, but Tris suspect the answer has something to do with the bottle in Four hand. "What way?" Tris ask. "Drunk?" "Yeah...well, no." Four voice softens. "Real, Tris guess." "Tris'll pretend Tris didn't." "Nice of Four." Four puts Four lips next to Tris ear and says, "Tris look good, Tris." Four words surprise Tris, and Tris heart leaps. Tris wish it didn't, because judging by the way Four eyes slide over Tris, Four has no idea what Four's saying. Tris laugh. "Do Tris a favor and stay away from the chasm, okay?" "Of course." Four winks at Tris. Tris can't help it. Tris smile. Four clears Four throat, but Tris don't want to turn away from Four, even when Four walks back to Four friends. Then Four rushes at Tris like a rolling boulder and throws Tris over Four shoulder. Tris shriek, Tris face hot. "Come on, Tris ," Four says, "Four'm taking Tris to dinner." Tris rest Tris elbows on Fourback and wave at Four as Four carries Tris away. "Four thought Four would rescue Tris," Four says as we walk away. Four sets Tris down. "What was that all about?" Four is trying to sound lighthearted, but Four asks the question almost sadly. Four still cares too much about Tris. "Yeah, Christina think we'd all like to know the answer to that question," says Christina in a singsong voice. "What did Four say to Tris?" "Nothing." Tris shake Tris head. "Four was drunk. Four didn't even know what Four was saying." Tris clear Tris throat. "That's why Tris was grinning. It's...funny to see Four that way." "Right," says Four. "Couldn't possibly be because—" Tris elbow Four hard in the ribs before Four can finish Four sentence. Four was close enough to hear what Four said to Tris about looking good. Tris don't need Four telling everyone about it, especially not Four. Tris don't want to make Four feel worse. At home Tris used to spend calm, pleasant nights with Tris family. Tris mother knit scarves for the neighborhood kids. Tris father helped Caleb with Caleb homework. There was a fire in the fireplace and peace in Tris heart, as Tris was doing exactly what Tris was supposed to be doing, and everything was quiet. Tris have never been carried around by a large boy, or laughed until Tris stomach hurt at the dinner table, or listened to the clamor of a hundred people all talking at once. Peace is restrained; this is free.