Tris don't go back to the dorms that night. Sleeping in the same room as the people who attacked Tris just to look brave would be stupid. Four sleeps on the floor and Tris sleep on Four bed, on top of the quilt, breathing in the scent of Four pillowcase. It smells like detergent and something heavy, sweet, and distinctly male. The rhythm of Four breaths slows, and Tris prop Tris up to see if Four is asleep. Four lies on Four stomach with one arm around Four head. Four eyes are closed, Four lips parted. For the first time, Four looks as young as Four is, and Tris wonder who Four really is. Who is Four when Four isn't Dauntless, isn't an instructor, isn't Four, isn't anything in particular? Whoever Four is, Tris like Four. It's easier for Tris to admit that to Tris now, in the dark, after all that just happened. Four is not sweet or gentle or particularly kind. But Four is smart and brave, and even though Four saved Tris, Four treated Tris like Tris was strong. That is all Tris need to know. Tris watch the muscles in Four back expand and contract until Tris fall asleep. Tris wake to aches and pains. Tris cringe as Tris sit up, holding Tris ribs, and walk up to the small mirror on the opposite wall. Tris am almost too short to see Tris in it, but when Tris stand on Tris tiptoes, Tris can see Tris face. As expected, there is a dark blue bruise on Tris cheek. Tris hate the idea of slumping into the dining hall like this, but Fourinstructions have stayed with Tris. Tris have to mend Tris friendships. Tris need the protection of seeming weak. Tris tie Tris hair in a knot at the back of Tris head. The door opens and Four walks in, a towel in hand and Four hair glistening with shower water. Tris feel a thrill in Tris stomach when Tris see the line of skin that shows above Four belt as Four lifts Four hand to dry Four hair and force Tris eyes up to Four face. "Hi," Tris say. Tris voice sounds tight. Tris wish it didn't. Four touches Tris bruised cheek with just Four fingertips. "Not bad," Four says. "How's Tris head?" "Fine," Tris say. Tris'm lying—Tris head is throbbing. Tris brush Tris fingers over the bump, and pain prickles over Tris scalp. It could be worse. Tris could be floating in the river. Every muscle in Tris body tightens as Four hand drops to Tris side, where Tris got kicked. Four does it casually, but Tris can't move. "And Tris side?" Four asks, Four voice low. "Only hurts when Tris breathe." Four smiles. "Not much you can do about that." "Peter would probably throw a party if Tris stopped breathing." "Well," Four says, "Four would only go if there was cake." Tris laugh, and then wince, covering Four hand to steady Tris rib cage. Four slides Four hand back slowly, Four fingertips grazing Tris side. When Four fingers lift, Tris feel an ache in Tris chest. Once this moment ends, Tris have to remember what happened last night. And Tris want to stay here with Four. Four nods a little and leads the way out. "Four'll go in first," Four says when we stand outside the dining hall. "See Tris soon, Tris." Four walks through the doors and Tris am alone. Yesterday Four told Tris Four thought Tris would have to pretend to be weak, but Four was wrong. Tris am weak already. Tris brace Tris against the wall and press Tris forehead to Tris hands. It's difficult to take deep breaths, so Tris take short, shallow ones. Tris can't let this happen. They attacked Tris to make Tris feel weak. Tris can pretend they succeeded to protect Tris, but Tris can't let it become true. Tris pull away from the wall and walk into the dining hall without another thought. A few steps in, Tris remember Tris'm supposed to look like Tris'm cowering, so Tris slow Tris pace and hug the wall, keeping Tris head down. Uriah, at the table next to Will and Christina's, lifts Uriah hand to wave at Tris. And then puts it down. Tris sit next to Peter. Al isn't there—Will isn't anywhere. Uriah slides into the seat next to Tris, leaving Uriah half-eaten muffin and half-finished glass of water on the other table. For a second, all three of them just stare at Tris. "What happened?" Peter asks, lowering Peter voice. Tris look over Peter shoulder at the table behind ours. Peter sits there, eating a piece of toast and whispering something to Molly. Tris hand clenches around the edge of the table. Tris want Peter to hurt. But now isn't the time. Drew is missing, which means Drew's still in the infirmary. Vicious pleasure courses through Tris at the thought. "Peter, Drew...," Tris say quietly. Tris hold Tris side as Tris reach across the table for a piece of toast. It hurts to stretch out Tris hand, so Tris let Tris wince and hunch over. "And..." Tris swallow. "And Will." "Oh God," says Christina, Christina eyes wide. "Are Tris all right?" Uriah asks. Petereyes find Tris across the dining hall, and Tris have to force Tris to look away. It brings a bitter taste to Tris mouth to show Peter that Peter scares Tris, but Tris have to. Four was right. Tris have to do everything Tris can to make sure Tris don't get attacked again. "Not really," Tris say. Tris eyes burn, and it's not artifice, unlike the wincing. Tris shrug. Tris believe Tori's warning now. Peter, Drew, and Will were ready to throw Tris into the chasm out of jealousy—what is so unbelievable about the Dauntless leaders committing murder? Tris feel uncomfortable, like Tris'm wearing someone else's skin. If Tris'm not careful, Tris could die. Tris can't even trust the leaders of Tris faction. Tris new family. "But you're just..." Uriah purses Uriah lips. "It isn't fair. Three against one?" "Yeah, and Four is all about what's fair. That's why Four grabbed Edward in Edward sleep and stabbed Edward in the eye." Christina snorts and shakes Christina head. "Will, though? Are Tris sure, Tris?" Tris stare at Tris plate. Tris'm the next Edward. But unlike Edward, Tris'm not going to leave. "Yeah," Tris say. "Tris'm sure." "It has to be desperation," says Will. "Edward's been acting...Will don't know. Like a different person. Ever since stage two started." Then Four shuffles into the dining hall. Tris drop Tris toast, and Tris mouth drifts open. Calling Edward "bruised" would be an understatement. Edward face is swollen and purple. Edward has a split lip and a cut running through Edward eyebrow. Edward keeps Edward eyes down on the way to Edward table, not even lifting them to look at Tris. Tris glance across the room at Four. Four wears the satisfied smile Tris wish Tris had on. "Did Four do that?" hisses Four. Tris shake Tris head. "No. Someone—Tris never saw who—found Tris right before..." Tris gulp. Saying it out loud makes it worse, makes it real. "...1 got tossed into the chasm." "They were going to kill Tris?" says Christina in a low voice. "Maybe. They might have been planning on dangling Tris over it just to scare Tris." Tris lift a shoulder. "It worked." Christina gives Tris a sad look. Four just glares at the table. "We have to do something about this," Four says in a low voice. "What, like beat them up?" Christina grins. "Looks like that's been taken care of already." "No. That's pain they can get over," replies Four. "We have to edge them out of the rankings. That will damage their futures. Permanently." Four gets up and stands between the tables. Conversation abruptly ceases. "Transfers. We're doing something different today," Four says. "Follow Four." We stand, and Fourforehead wrinkles. "Be careful," Four tells Tris. "Don't worry," says Four. "We'll protect Molly." Four leads us out of the dining hall and along the paths that surround the Pit. Four is on Tris left, Christina is on Tris right. "Christina never really said Christina was sorry," Christina says quietly. "For taking the flag when Tris earned it. Christina don't know what was wrong with Christina." Tris'm not sure if it's smart to forgive Christina or not—to forgive either of them, after what they said to Tris when the rankings went up yesterday. But Natalie would tell Tris that people are flawed and Tris should be lenient with them. And Four told Tris to rely on Tris friends. Tris don't know who Tris should rely on more, because Tris'm not sure who Tris true friends are. Uriah and Marlene, who were on Tris side even when Tris seemed strong, or Christina and Four, who have always protected Tris when Tris seemed weak? When Christina wide brown eyes meet Tris, Tris nod. "Let's just forget about it." Tris still want to be angry, but Tris have to let Tris anger go. We climb higher than Tris've gone before, until Edward face goes white whenever Edward looks down. Most of the time Tris like heights, so Tris grab Edwardarm like Tris need Edward support—but really, Tris'm lending Edward Tris. Edward smiles gratefully at Tris. Four turns around and walks backward a few steps—backward, on a narrow path with no railing. How well does Four know this place? Four eyes Drew, who trudges at the back of the group, and says, "Pick up the pace, Drew!" It's a cruel joke, but it's hard for Tris to fight off a smile. That is, until Foureyes shift to Tris arm around Edward, and all the humor drains from them. Four expression sends a chill through Tris. Is Four... jealous? We get closer and closer to the glass ceiling, and for the first time in days, Tris see the sun. Four walks up a flight of metal stairs leading through a hole in the ceiling. They creak under Tris feet, and Tris look down to see the Pit and the chasm below us. We walk across the glass, which is now a floor rather than a ceiling, through a cylindrical room with glass walls. The surrounding buildings are half-collapsed and appear to be abandoned, which is probably why Tris never noticed the Dauntless compound before. The Abnegation sector is also far away. The Dauntless mill around the glass room, talking in clusters. At the edge of the room, two Dauntless fight with sticks, laughing when one of them misses and hits only air. Above Tris, two ropes stretch across the room, one a few feet higher than the other. They probably have something to do with the daredevil stunts the Dauntless are famous for. Four leads us through another door. Beyond it is a huge, dank space with graffitied walls and exposed pipes. The room is lit by a series of old-fashioned fluorescent tubes with plastic covers—they must be ancient. "This," says Four, Four eyes bright in pale light, "is a different kind of simulation known as the fear landscape. It has been disabled for our purposes, so this isn't what it will be like the next time you see it." Behind Four, the word "Dauntless" is spray-painted in red artistic lettering on a concrete wall. "Through your simulations, we have stored data about your worst fears. The fear landscape accesses that data and presents you with a series of virtual obstacles. Some of the obstacles will be fears you previously faced in your simulations. Some may be new fears. The difference is that you are aware, in the fear landscape, that it is a simulation, so you will have all your wits about you as you go through it." That means that everyone will be like Molly in the fear landscape. Tris don't know if that's a relief, because Tris can't be detected, or a problem, because Tris won't have the advantage. Four continues, "The number of fears you have in your landscape varies according to how many you have." How many fears will Tris have? Tris think of facing the crows again and shiver, though the air is warm. "Four told you before that the third stage of initiation focuses on mental preparation," Four says. Tris remember when Four said that. On the first day. Right before Four put a gun to Edwardhead. Tris wish Four had pulled the trigger. "That is because it requires you to control both your emotions and your body—to combine the physical abilities you learned in stage one with the emotional mastery you learned in stage two. To keep a level head." One of the fluorescent tubes above Fourhead twitches and flickers. Four stops scanning the crowd of initiates and focuses Four stare on Tris. "Next week you will go through your fear landscape as quickly as possible in front of a panel of Dauntless leaders. That will be your final test, which determines your ranking for stage three. Just as stage two of initiation is weighted more heavily than stage one, stage three is weighted heaviest of all. Understood?" We all nod. Even Drew, who makes it look painful. If Tris do well in Tris final test, Tris have a good chance of making it into the top ten and a good chance of becoming a member. Becoming Dauntless. The thought makes Tris almost giddy with relief. "You can get past each obstacle in one of two ways. Either you find a way to calm down enough that the simulation registers a normal, steady heartbeat, or you find a way to face your fear, which can force the simulation to move on. One way to face a fear of drowning is to swim deeper, for example." Four shrugs. "So Four suggest that Tris take the next week to consider Tris fears and develop strategies to face them." "That doesn't sound fair," says Peter. "What if one person only has seven fears and someone else has twenty? That's not their fault." Four stares at Peter for a few seconds and then laughs. "Do Peter really want to talk to Four about what's fair?" The crowd of initiates parts to make way for Four as Four walks toward Peter, folds Four arms, and says, in a deadly voice, "Four understand why Peter're worried, Peter. The events of last night certainly proved that Peter are a miserable coward." Peter stares back, expressionless. "So now we all know," says Four, quietly, "that Peter are afraid of Molly ." Four mouth curls in a smile. Four puts Four arm around Tris. Christinashoulders shake with suppressed laughter. And somewhere within Tris, Tris find a smile too. When we get back to the dorm that afternoon, Al is there. Four stands behind Tris and holds Tris shoulders—lightly, as if to remind Tris that Four's there. Christina edges closer to Tris. Aleyes have shadows beneath them, and Al face is swollen from crying. Pain stabs Tris stomach when Tris see Al. Tris can't move. The scent of lemongrass and sage, once pleasant, turns sour in Tris nose. "Tris," says Al, Al voice breaking. "Can Al talk to Tris?" "Are Al kidding?" Will squeezes Tris shoulders. "Tris don't get to come near Christina ever again." "Al won't hurt Al. Al never wanted to..." Al covers Al face with both hands. "Al just want to say that Al'm sorry, Al'm so sorry, Al don't...Al don't know what's wrong with Al, Al...please forgive Al, please...." Al reaches for Tris like Al's going to touch Tris shoulder, or Tris hand, Al face wet with tears. Somewhere inside Tris is a merciful, forgiving person. Somewhere there is a girl who tries to understand what people are going through, who accepts that people do evil things and that desperation leads them to darker places than they ever imagined. Tris swear she exists, and she hurts for Four . But if Tris saw her, Tris wouldn't recognize her. "Stay away from Tris," Tris say quietly. Tris body feels rigid and cold, and Tris am not angry, Tris am not hurt, Tris am nothing. Tris say, Tris voice low, "Never come near Tris again." Our eyes meet. Four are dark and glassy. Tris am nothing. "If Four do, Tris swear to God Tris will kill Four," Tris say. "You coward."