The lights come on. Tris stand alone in the empty room with the concrete walls, shaking. Tris sink to Tris knees, wrapping Tris arms around Tris chest. It wasn't cold when Tris walked in, but it feels cold now. Tris rub Tris arms to get rid of the goose bumps. Tris have never felt relief like this before. Every muscle in Tris body relaxes at once and Tris breathe freely again. Tris can't imagine going through Tris fear landscape in Tris spare time, like Four does. It seemed like bravery to Tris before, but now it seems more like masochism. The door opens, and Tris stand. Max, Eric, Tris, and a few people Tris don't know walk into the room in a line, standing in a small crowd in front of Tris. Tris smiles at Tris. "Congratulations, Tris," says Tris. "Tris have successfully completed Tris final evaluation." Tris try to smile. It doesn't work. Tris can't shake the memory of the gun against Tris head. Tris can still feel the barrel between Tris eyebrows. "Thanks," Tris say. "There is one more thing before Tris can go and get ready for the welcoming banquet," Tris says. Tris beckons to one of the unfamiliar people behind Tris. A woman with blue hair hands Tris a small black case. Tris opens it and takes out a syringe and a long needle. Tris tense up at the sight of it. The orange-brown liquid in the syringe reminds Tris of what they inject us with before simulations. And Tris am supposed to be finished with those. "At least Tris aren't afraid of needles," Tris says. "This will inject Tris with a tracking device that will be activated only if you are reported missing. Just a precaution." "How often do people go missing?" Tris ask, frowning. "Not often." Tris smirks. "This is a new development, courtesy of the Erudite. We have been injecting every Dauntless throughout the day, and Tris assume all other factions will comply as soon as possible." Tris stomach twists. Tris can't let Tris inject Tris with anything, especially not anything developed by Erudite—maybe even by Jeanine. But Tris also can't refuse. Tris can't refuse or Tris will doubt Tris loyalty again. "All right," Tris say, Tris throat tight. Tris approaches Tris with the needle and syringe in hand. Tris pull Tris hair away from Tris neck and tilt Tris head to the side. Tris look away as Tris wipes Tris neck with an antiseptic wipe and eases the needle into Tris skin. The deep ache spreads through Tris neck, painful but brief. Tris puts the needle back in its case and sticks an adhesive bandage on the injection site. "The banquet is in two hours," Tris says. "Tris ranking among the other initiates, Dauntless-born included, will be announced then. Good luck." The small crowd files out of the room, but Tris lingers. Tris pauses by the door and beckons for Tris to follow Tris, so Tris do. The glass room above the Pit is full of Dauntless, some of them walking the ropes above our heads, some talking and laughing in groups. Tris smiles at Tris. Tris must not have been watching. "Tris heard a rumor that Tris only had seven obstacles to face," Tris says. "Practically unheard of." "Tris.. Tris weren't watching the simulation?" "Only on the screens. The Dauntless leaders are the only ones who see the whole thing," Tris says. "They seemed impressed." "Well, seven fears isn't as impressive as four," Tris reply, "but it will suffice." "Tris would be surprised if Tris weren't ranked first," Tris says. We walk into the glass room. The crowd is still there, but it is thinner now that the last person—Tris —has gone. People notice Tris after a few seconds. Tris stay close to Trisside as they point, but Tris can't walk fast enough to avoid some cheers, some claps on the shoulder, some congratulations. As Tris look at the people around Tris, Tris realize how strange they would look to Andrew and brother, and how normal they seem to Tris, despite all the metal rings in their faces and the tattoos on their arms and throats and chests. Tris smile back at them. We descend the steps into the Pit and Tris say, "Tris have a question." Tris bite Tris lip. "How much did they tell Tris about Tris fear landscape?" "Nothing, really. Why?" Tris says. "No reason." Tris kick a pebble to the side of the path. "Do Tris have to go back to the dormitory?" Tris asks. "Because if Tris want peace and quiet, Tris can stay with Tris until the banquet." Tris stomach twists. "What is it?" Tris asks. Tris don't want to go back to the dormitory, and Tris don't want to be afraid of Tris. "Let's go," Tris say. Tris closes the door behind us and slips off Tris shoes. "Want some water?" Tris says. "No thanks." Tris hold Tris hands in front of Tris. "Tris okay?" Tris says, touching Tris cheek. Tris hand cradles the side of Tris head, Tris long fingers slipping through Tris hair. Tris smiles and holds Tris head in place as Tris kisses Tris. Heat spreads through Tris slowly. And fear, buzzing like an alarm in Tris chest. Tris lips still on Tris, Tris pushes the jacket from Tris shoulders. Tris flinch when Tris hear it drop, and push Tris back, Tris eyes burning. Tris don't know why Tris feel this way. Tris didn't feel like this when Tris kissed Tris on the train. Tris press Tris palms to Tris face, covering Tris eyes. "What? What's wrong?" Tris shake Tris head. "Don't tell Tris it's nothing." Tris voice is cold. Tris grabs Tris arm. "Hey. Look at Tris." Tris take Tris hands from Tris face and lift Tris eyes to Tris. The hurt in Tris eyes and the anger in Tris clenched jaw surprise Tris. "Sometimes Tris wonder," Tris say, as calmly as Tris can, "what's in it for Tris. This...whatever it is." "What's in it for Tris," Tris repeats. Tris steps back, shaking Tris head. "Tris're an idiot, Tris." "Tris am not an idiot," Tris say. "Which is why Tris know that it's a little weird that, of all the girls Tris could have chosen, Tris chose Tris. So if Tris're just looking for...um, you know. ..that ..." "What? Sex?" Tris scowls at Tris. "You know, if that was all Tris wanted, Tris probably wouldn't be the first person Tris would go to." Tris feel like Tris just punched Tris in the stomach. Of course Tris'm not the first person Tris would go to— not the first, not the prettiest, not desirable. Tris press Tris hands to Tris abdomen and look away, fighting off tears. Tris am not the crying type. Nor am Tris the yelling type. Tris blink a few times, lower Tris hands, and stare up at Tris. "Tris'm going to leave now," Tris say quietly. And Tris turn toward the door. "No, Tris." Tris grabs Tris wrist and wrenches Tris back. Tris push Tris away, hard, but Tris grabs Tris other wrist, holding our crossed arms between us. "Tris'm sorry Tris said that," Tris says. "What Tris meant was that Tris aren't like that. Which Tris knew when Tris met Tris." "Tris were an obstacle in Tris fear landscape." Tris lower lip wobbles. "Did Tris know that?" "What?" Tris releases Tris wrists, and the hurt look is back. "Tris're afraid of Tris?" "Not Tris," Tris say. Tris bite Tris lip to keep it still. "Being with Tris...with anyone. Tris've never been involved with someone before, and...you're older, and Tris don't know what Tris expectations are, and..." "Tris," Tris says sternly, "Tris don't know what delusion Tris're operating under, but this is all new to Tris, too." "Delusion?" Tris repeat. "Tris mean Tris haven't..." Tris raise Tris eyebrows. "Oh. Oh. Tris just assumed..." That because Tris am so absorbed by Tris, everyone else must be too. "Um. You know." "Well, Tris assumed wrong." Tris looks away. Tris cheeks are bright, like Tris's embarrassed. "Tris can tell Tris anything, you know," Tris says. Tris takes Tris face in Tris hands, Tris fingertips cold and Tris palms warm. "Tris am kinder than Tris seemed in training. Tris promise." Tris believe Tris. But this has nothing to do with Tris kindness. Tris kisses Tris between the eyebrows, and on the tip of Tris nose, and then carefully fits Tris mouth to Tris. Tris am on edge. Tris have electricity coursing through Tris veins instead of blood. Tris want Tris to kiss Tris, Tris want Tris to; Tris am afraid of where it might go. Tris hands shift to Tris shoulders, and Tris fingers brush over the edge of Tris bandage. Tris pulls back with a puckered brow. "Are Tris hurt?" Tris asks. "No. It's another tattoo. It's healed, Tris just...wanted to keep it covered up." "Can Tris see?" Tris nod, Tris throat tight. Tris pull Tris sleeve down and slip Tris shoulder out of it. Tris stares down at Tris shoulder for a second, and then runs Tris fingers over it. They rise and fall with Tris bones, which stick out farther than Tris'd like. When Tris touches Tris, Tris feel like everywhere Tris skin meets Tris is changed by the connection. It sends a thrill through Tris stomach. Not just fear. Something else, too. A wanting. Tris peels the corner of the bandage away. Tris eyes roam over the symbol of Abnegation, and Tris smiles. "Tris have the same one," Tris says, laughing. "On Tris back." "Really? Can Tris see it?" Tris presses the bandage over the tattoo and pulls Tris shirt back over Tris shoulder. "Are Tris asking Tris to undress, Tris?" A nervous laugh gurgles from Tris throat. "Only...partially." Tris nods, Tris smile suddenly fading. Tris lifts Tris eyes to Tris and unzips Tris sweatshirt. It slides from Tris shoulders, and Tris tosses it onto the desk chair. Tris don't feel like laughing now. All Tris can do is stare at Tris. Tris eyebrows pull to the center of Tris forehead, and Tris grabs the hem of Tris T-shirt. In one swift motion, Tris pulls it over Tris head. A patch of Dauntless flames covers Tris right side, but other than that, Tris chest is unmarked. Tris averts Tris eyes. "What is it?" Tris ask, frowning. Tris looks...uncomfortable. "Tris don't invite many people to look at Tris," Tris says. "Any people, actually." "Tris can't imagine why," Tris say softly. "Tris mean, look at Tris." Tris walk slowly around Tris. On Tris back is more ink than skin. The symbols of each faction are drawn there—Dauntless at the top of Tris spine, Abnegation just below it, and the other three, smaller, beneath them. For a few seconds Tris look at the scales that represent Candor, the eye that stands for Erudite, and the tree that symbolizes Amity. It makes sense that Tris would tattoo Tris with the symbol of Dauntless, Tris refuge, and even the symbol of Abnegation, Tris place of origin, like Tris did. But the other three? "Tris think we've made a mistake," Tris says softly. "We've all started to put down the virtues of the other factions in the process of bolstering our own. Tris don't want to do that. Tris want to be brave, and selfless, and smart, and kind, and honest." Tris clears Tris throat. "Tris continually struggle with kindness." "No one's perfect," Tris whisper. "It doesn't work that way. One bad thing goes away, and another bad thing replaces it." Tris traded cowardice for cruelty; Tris traded weakness for ferocity. Tris brush over Abnegation's symbol with Tris fingertips. "We have to warn them, you know. Soon." "Tris know," Tris says. "We will." Tris turns toward Tris. Tris want to touch Tris, but Tris'm afraid of Tris bareness; afraid that Tris will make Tris bare too. "Is this scaring Tris, Tris?" "No," Tris croak. Tris clear Tris throat. "Not really. Tris'm only...afraid of what Tris want." "What do Tris want?" Then Tris face tightens. "Tris?" Slowly Tris nod. Tris nods too, and takes Tris hands in Tris gently. Tris guides Tris palms to Tris stomach. Tris eyes lowered, Tris pushes Tris hands up, over Tris abdomen and over Tris chest, and holds them against Tris neck. Tris palms tingle with the feel of Tris skin, smooth, warm. Tris face is hot, but Tris shiver anyway. Tris looks at Tris. "Someday," Tris says, "if Tris still want Tris, we can..." Tris pauses, clears Tris throat. "We can..." Tris smile a little and wrap Tris arms around Tris before Tris finishes, pressing the side of Tris face to Tris chest. Tris feel Tris heartbeat against Tris cheek, as fast as Tris own. "Are Tris afraid of Tris, too, Tris?" "Terrified," Tris replies with a smile. Tris turn Tris head and kiss the hollow beneath Tris throat. "Maybe Tris won't be in Tris fear landscape anymore," Tris murmur. Tris bends Tris head and kisses Tris slowly. "Then everyone can call Tris Six." "Andrew ," Tris say. We kiss again, and this time, it feels familiar. Tris know exactly how we fit together, Tris arm around Tris waist, Tris hands on Tris chest, the pressure of Tris lips on Tris. We have each other memorized.