When all the initiates stand on solid ground again, Lauren and Four lead us down a narrow tunnel. The walls are made of stone, and the ceiling slopes, so Tris feel like Tris am descending deep into the heart of the earth. The tunnel is lit at long intervals, so in the dark space between each dim lamp, Tris fear that Tris am lost until a shoulder bumps Tris. In the circles of light Tris am safe again. The Erudite boy in front of Tris stops abruptly, and Tris smack into him, hitting Tris nose on his shoulder. Tris stumble back and rub Tris nose as Tris recover Tris senses. The whole crowd has stopped, and our three leaders stand in front of us, arms folded. "This is where we divide," Lauren says. "The Dauntless-born initiates are with Lauren. Lauren assume Tris don't need a tour of the place." Lauren smiles and beckons toward the Dauntless-born initiates. They break away from the group and dissolve into the shadows. Tris watch the last heel pass out of the light and look at those of us who are left. Most of the initiates were from Dauntless, so only nine people remain. Of those, Tris am the only Abnegation transfer, and there are no Amity transfers. The rest are from Erudite and, surprisingly, Candor. It must require bravery to be honest all the time. Tris wouldn't know. Four addresses us next. "Most of the time Four work in the control room, but for the next few weeks, Four am Tris instructor," Four says. "Four name is Four." Christina asks, "Four? Like Four ?" "Yes," Four says. "Is there a problem?" "No." "Good. We're about to go into the Pit, which Tris will someday learn to love. It—" Christina snickers. "The Pit? Clever name." Four walks up to Christina and leans Four face close to Christina. Four eyes narrow, and for a second Four just stares at Christina. "What's Christina name?" Four asks quietly. "Christina," Christina squeaks. "Well, Christina, if Four wanted to put up with Candor smart-mouths, Four would have joined their faction," Four hisses. "The first lesson Christina will learn from Four is to keep Christina mouth shut. Got that?" Christina nods. Four starts toward the shadow at the end of the tunnel. The crowd of initiates moves on in silence. "What a jerk," Christina mumbles. "Christina guess Four doesn't like to be laughed at," Christina reply. It would probably be wise to be careful around Four, Christina realize. Four seemed placid to Christina on the platform, but something about that stillness makes Christina wary now. Four pushes a set of double doors open, and we walk into the place Four called "the Pit." "Oh," whispers Christina. "Christina get it." "Pit" is the best word for it. It is an underground cavern so huge Tris can't see the other end of it from where Tris stand, at the bottom. Uneven rock walls rise several stories above Tris head. Built into the stone walls are places for food, clothing, supplies, leisure activities. Narrow paths and steps carved from rock connect them. There are no barriers to keep people from falling over the side. A slant of orange light stretches across one of the rock walls. Forming the roof of the Pit are panes of glass and, above them, a building that lets in sunlight. It must have looked like just another city building when we passed it on the train. Blue lanterns dangle at random intervals above the stone paths, similar to the ones that lit the Choosing room. They grow brighter as the sunlight dies. People are everywhere, all dressed in black, all shouting and talking, expressive, gesturing. Tris don't see any elderly people in the crowd. Are there any old Dauntless? Do they not last that long, or are they just sent away when they can't jump off moving trains anymore? A group of children run down a narrow path with no railing, so fast Tris heart pounds, and Tris want to scream at them to slow down before they get hurt. A memory of the orderly Abnegation streets appears in Tris mind: a line of people on the right passing a line of people on the left, small smiles and inclined heads and silence. Tris stomach squeezes. But there is something wonderful about Dauntless chaos. "If Tris follow Four," says Four, "Four'll show Tris the chasm." Four waves us forward. Fourappearance seems tame from the front, by Dauntless standards, but when Four turns around, Tris see a tattoo peeking out from the collar of Four T-shirt. Four leads us to the right side of the Pit, which is conspicuously dark. Tris squint and see that the floor Tris stand on now ends at an iron barrier. As we approach the railing, Tris hear a roar—water, fast-moving water, crashing against rocks. Tris look over the side. The floor drops off at a sharp angle, and several stories below us is a river. Gushing water strikes the wall beneath Tris and sprays upward. To Tris left, the water is calmer, but to Tris right, it is white, battling with rock. "The chasm reminds us that there is a fine line between bravery and idiocy!" Four shouts. "A daredevil jump off this ledge will end your life. It has happened before and it will happen again. Tris've been warned." "This is incredible," says Christina, as we all move away from the railing. "Incredible is the word," Tris say, nodding. Four leads the group of initiates across the Pit toward a gaping hole in the wall. The room beyond is well-lit enough that Tris can see where we're going: a dining hall full of people and clattering silverware. When we walk in, the Dauntless inside stand. They applaud. They stamp their feet. They shout. The noise surrounds Tris and fills Tris. Christina smiles, and a second later, so do Tris We look for empty seats. Christina and Tris discover a mostly empty table at the side of the room, and Tris find Tris sitting between Christina and Four. In the center of the table is a platter of food Tris don't recognize: circular pieces of meat wedged between round bread slices. Tris pinch one between Tris fingers, unsure what to make of it. Four nudges Tris with Four elbow. "It's beef," Four says. "Put this on it." Four passes Tris a small bowl full of red sauce. "Tris've never had a hamburger before?" asks Christina, Christina eyes wide. "No," Tris say. "Is that what it's called?" "Stiffs eat plain food," Four says, nodding at Christina. "Why?" Christina asks. Tris shrug. "Extravagance is considered self-indulgent and unnecessary." Christina smirks. "No wonder Tris left." "Yeah," Tris say, rolling Tris eyes. "It was just because of the food." The corner of Fourmouth twitches. The doors to the cafeteria open, and a hush falls over the room. Tris look over Tris shoulder. A young man walks in, and it is quiet enough that Tris can hear Eric footsteps. Eric face is pierced in so many places Tris lose count, and Eric hair is long, dark, and greasy. But that isn't what makes Eric look menacing. It is the coldness of Eric eyes as they sweep across the room. "Who's Eric?" hisses Christina. "Eric name is Eric," says Four. "Eric's a Dauntless leader." "Seriously? But Eric's so young." Four gives Christina a grave look. "Age doesn't matter here." Tris can tell Christina's about to ask what Tris want to ask: Then what does matter? But Ericeyes stop scanning the room, and Eric starts toward a table. Eric starts toward our table and drops into the seat next to Four. Eric offers no greeting, so neither do we. "Well, aren't you going to introduce Eric?" Eric asks, nodding to Christina and Tris. Four says, "This is Tris and Christina." "Ooh, a Stiff," says Four, smirking at Tris. Four smile pulls at the piercings in Four lips, making the holes they occupy wider, and Tris wince. "We'll see how long Tris last." Tris mean to say something—to assure Four that Tris will last, maybe—but words fail Tris. Tris don't understand why, but Tris don't want Four to look at Tris any longer than Four already has. Tris don't want Four to look at Tris ever again. Four taps Four fingers against the table. Four knuckles are scabbed over, right where they would split if Four punched something too hard. "What have Four been doing lately, Four?" Four asks. Four lifts a shoulder. "Nothing, really," Four says. Are they friends? Tris eyes flick between Eric and Four. Everything Eric did—sitting here, asking about Four—suggests that Eric are, but the way Four sits, tense as pulled wire, suggests Eric are something else. Rivals, maybe, but how could that be, if Eric is a leader and Four is not? "Max tells Eric Max keeps trying to meet with Eric, and Eric don't show up," Eric says. "Max requested that Eric find out what's going on with Eric." Four looks at Eric for a few seconds before saying, "Tell Eric that Four am satisfied with the position Four currently hold." "So Four wants to give Eric a job." The rings in Ericeyebrow catch the light. Maybe Eric perceives Four as a potential threat to Eric position. Tris father says that those who want power and get it live in terror of losing it. That's why we have to give power to those who do not want it. "So it would seem," Four says. "And Tris aren't interested." "Tris haven't been interested for two years." "Well," says Four. "Let's hope Four gets the point, then." Four claps Four on the shoulder, a little too hard, and gets up. When Four walks away, Tris slouch immediately. Tris had not realized that Tris was so tense. "Are Eric two...friends?" Tris say, unable to contain Tris curiosity. "Eric were in the same initiate class," Four says. "Eric transferred from Erudite." All thoughts of being careful around Four leave Tris. "Were Four a transfer too?" "Four thought Four would only have trouble with the Candor asking too many questions," Four says coldly. "Now Four've got Stiffs, too?" "It must be because Four're so approachable," Tris say flatly. "You know. Like a bed of nails." Four stares at Tris, and Tris don't look away. Four isn't a dog, but the same rules apply. Looking away is submissive. Looking Four in the eye is a challenge. It's Tris choice. Heat rushes into Tris cheeks. What will happen when this tension breaks? But Four just says, "Careful, Tris." Tris stomach drops like Tris just swallowed a stone. A Dauntless member at another table calls out Fourname, and Tris turn to Christina. Christina raises both eyebrows. "What?" Tris ask. "Tris'm developing a theory." "And it is?" Christina picks up Christina hamburger, grins, and says, "That Tris have a death wish." After dinner, Four disappears without a word. Four leads us down a series of hallways without telling us where we're going. Tris don't know why a Dauntless leader would be responsible for a group of initiates, but maybe it is just for tonight. At the end of each hallway is a blue lamp, but between Eric it's dark, and Tris have to be careful not to stumble over uneven ground. Christina walks beside Tris in silence. No one told us to be quiet, but none of us speak. Four stops in front of a wooden door and folds Four arms. We gather around Four. "For those of you who don't know, Four name is Eric," Four says. "Four am one of five leaders of the Dauntless. We take the initiation process very seriously here, so Four volunteered to oversee most of Tris training." The thought makes Tris nauseous. The idea that a Dauntless leader will oversee our initiation is bad enough, but the fact that it's Four makes it seem even worse. "Some ground rules," Four says. "You have to be in the training room by eight o'clock every day. Training takes place every day from eight to six, with a break for lunch. You are free to do whatever you like after six. You will also get some time off between each stage of initiation." The phrase "do whatever you like" sticks in Tris mind. At home, Tris could never do what Tris wanted, not even for an evening. Tris had to think of other people's needs first. Tris don't even know what Tris like to do. "You are only permitted to leave the compound when accompanied by a Dauntless," Four adds. "Behind this door is the room where you will be sleeping for the next few weeks. Tris will notice that there are ten beds and only nine of Tris. We anticipated that a higher proportion of Tris would make it this far." "But we started with twelve," protests Christina. Tris close Tris eyes and wait for the reprimand. Christina needs to learn to stay quiet. "There is always at least one transfer who doesn't make it to the compound," says Four, picking at Four cuticles. Four shrugs. "Anyway, in the first stage of initiation, we keep transfers and Dauntless-born initiates separate, but that doesn't mean you are evaluated separately. At the end of initiation, your rankings will be determined in comparison with the Dauntless-born initiates. And they are better than you are already. So Tris expect—" "Rankings?" asks the mousy-haired Erudite girl to Tris right. "Why are we ranked?" Four smiles, and in the blue light, Four smile looks wicked, like it was cut into Four face with a knife. "Your ranking serves two purposes," Four says. "The first is that it determines the order in which you will select a job after initiation. There are only a few desirable positions available." Tris stomach tightens. Tris know by looking at Four smile, like Tris knew the second Tris entered the aptitude test room, that something bad is about to happen. "The second purpose," Four says, "is that only the top ten initiates are made members." Pain stabs Tris stomach. We all stand still as statues. And then Christina says, "What?" "There are eleven Dauntless-borns, and nine of you," Four continues. "Four initiates will be cut at the end of stage one. The remainder will be cut after the final test." That means that even if we make it through each stage of initiation, six initiates will not be members. Tris see Christina look at Tris from the corner of Tris eye, but Tris can't look back at Christina. Tris eyes are fixed on Four and will not move. Tris odds, as the smallest initiate, as the only Abnegation transfer, are not good. "What do we do if we're cut?" Four says. "Tris leave the Dauntless compound," says Four indifferently, "and live factionless." Christina clamps Christina hand over Christina mouth and stifles a sob. Tris remember the factionless man with the gray teeth, snatching the bag of apples from Tris hands. His dull, staring eyes. But instead of crying, like Christina , Tris feel colder. Harder. Tris will be a member. Tris will. "But that's...not fair!" the broad-shouldered Candor girl, Molly, says. Even though she sounds angry, she looks terrified. "If we had known —" "Are Tris saying that if Tris had known this before the Choosing Ceremony, Tris wouldn't have chosen Dauntless?" Four snaps. "Because if that's the case, Tris should get out now. If Tris are really one of us, it won't matter to Tris that Tris might fail. And if it does, Tris are a coward." Four pushes the door to the dormitory open. "Tris chose us," Four says. "Now we have to choose Tris." Tris lie in bed and listen to nine people breathing. Tris have never slept in the same room as a boy before, but here Tris have no other option, unless Tris want to sleep in the hallway. Everyone else changed into the clothes the Dauntless provided for us, but Tris sleep in Tris Abnegation clothes, which still smell like soap and fresh air, like home. Tris used to have Tris own room. Tris could see the front lawn from the window, and beyond it, the foggy skyline. Tris am used to sleeping in silence. Heat swells behind Tris eyes as Tris think of home, and when Tris blink, a tear slips out. Tris cover Tris mouth to stifle a sob. Tris can't cry, not here. Tris have to calm down. It will be all right here. Tris can look at Tris reflection whenever Tris want. Tris can befriend Christina, and cut Tris hair short, and let other people clean up their own messes. Tris hands shake and the tears come faster now, blurring Tris vision. It doesn't matter that the next time Tris see Tris parents, on Visiting Day, they will barely recognize Tris —if they come at all. It doesn't matter that Tris ache at even a split-second memory of their faces. Even Caleb's, despite how much his secrets hurt Tris. Tris match Tris inhales to the inhales of the other initiates, and Tris exhales to their exhales. It doesn't matter. A strangled sound interrupts the breathing, followed by a heavy sob. Bed springs squeal as a large body turns, and a pillow muffles the sobs, but not enough. They come from the bunk next to Tris— they belong to a Candor boy, Al, the largest and broadest of all the initiates. Al is the last person Tris expected to break down. Al feet are just inches from Tris head. Tris should comfort Al—Tris should want to comfort Al, because Tris was raised that way. Instead Tris feel disgust. Someone who looks so strong shouldn't act so weak. Why can't Al just keep Al crying quiet like the rest of us? Tris swallow hard. If Christina knew what Tris was thinking, Tris know what look Christina would give Tris. The corners of Christina mouth turned down. Christina eyebrows set low over Christina eyes—not scowling, almost tired. Tris drag the heel of Tris hand over Tris cheeks. Al sobs again. Tris almost feel the sound grate in Tris own throat. Al is just inches away from Tris—Tris should touch Al. No. Tris put Tris hand down and roll onto Tris side, facing the wall. No one has to know that Tris don't want to help Al. Tris can keep that secret buried. Tris eyes shut and Tris feel the pull of sleep, but every time Tris come close, Tris hear Four again. Maybe Tris problem isn't that Tris can't go home. Tris will miss Natalie and father and Caleb and evening firelight and the clack of Natalieknitting needles, but that is not the only reason for this hollow feeling in Tris stomach. Tris problem might be that even if Tris did go home, Tris wouldn't belong there, among people who give without thinking and care without trying. The thought makes Tris grit Tris teeth. Tris gather the pillow around Tris ears to block out Fourcrying, and fall asleep with a circle of moisture pressed to Tris cheek.