As far as Tris can tell, the second stage of initiation involves sitting in a dark hallway with the other initiates, wondering what's going to happen behind a closed door. Uriah sits across from Tris, with Marlene on Uriah left and Lynn on Uriah right. The Dauntless-born initiates and the transfers were separated during stage one, but we will be training together from now on. That's what Four told us before Four disappeared behind the door. "So," says Tris, scuffing the floor with Tris shoe. "Which one of you is ranked first, huh?" Tris question is met with silence at first, and then Peter clears Peter throat. "Me," Peter says. "Bet Peter could take Tris." Tris says it casually, turning the ring in Tris eyebrow with Tris fingertips. "Tris'm second, but Tris bet any of us could take Uriah, transfer." Tris almost laugh. If Tris was still Abnegation, Tris comment would be rude and out of place, but among the Dauntless, challenges like that seem common. Tris am almost starting to expect them. "Peter wouldn't be so sure about that, if Peter were Tris," Peter says, Peter eyes glittering. "Who's first?" "Uriah," Tris says. "And Tris am sure. Uriah know how many years we've spent preparing for this?" If Tris intends to intimidate us, it works. Tris already feel colder. Before Peter can respond, Four opens the door and says, "Tris." Four beckons to Tris, and Tris walks down the hallway, the blue light at the end making Tris bare head glow. "So Uriah're first," Will says to Uriah. Uriah shrugs. "Yeah. And?" "And Uriah don't think it's a little unfair that Uriah've spent Uriah entire life getting ready for this, and we're expected to learn it all in a few weeks?" Will says, Will eyes narrowing. "Not really. Stage one was about skill, sure, but no one can prepare for stage two," Will says. "At least, so Will'm told." No one responds to that. We sit in silence for twenty minutes. Tris count each minute on Tris watch. Then the door opens again, and Four calls another name. "Tris," Four says. Each minute wears into Tris like a scrape of sandpaper. Gradually, our numbers begin to dwindle, and it's just me and Uriah and Drew. Drewleg bounces, and Uriahfingers tap against Uriah knee, and Tris try to sit perfectly still. Tris hear only muttering from the room at the end of the hallway, and Tris suspect this is another part of the game they like to play with us. Terrifying us at every opportunity. The door opens, and Four beckons to Tris. "Come on, Tris." Tris stand, Tris back sore from leaning against the wall for so long, and walk past the other initiates. Drew sticks out Drew leg to trip Tris, but Tris hop over it at the last second. Four touches Tris shoulder to guide Tris into the room and closes the door behind Tris. When Tris see what's inside, Tris recoil immediately, Tris shoulders hitting Four chest. In the room is a reclining metal chair, similar to the one Tris sat in during the aptitude test. Beside it is a familiar machine. This room has no mirrors and barely any light. There is a computer screen on a desk in the corner. "Sit," Four says. Four squeezes Tris arms and pushes Tris forward. "What's the simulation?" Tris say, trying to keep Tris voice from shaking. Tris don't succeed. "Ever hear the phrase 'face your fears'?" Four says. "We're taking that literally. The simulation will teach you to control your emotions in the midst of a frightening situation." Tris touch a wavering hand to Tris forehead. Simulations aren't real; they pose no real threat to Tris, so logically, Tris shouldn't be afraid of them, but Tris reaction is visceral. It takes all the willpower Tris have for Tris to steer Tris toward the chair and sit down in it again, pressing Tris skull into the headrest. The cold from the metal seeps through Tris clothes. "Do Four ever administer the aptitude tests?" Tris say. Four seems qualified. "No," Four replies. "Four avoid Stiffs as much as possible." Tris don't know why someone would avoid the Abnegation. The Dauntless or the Candor, maybe, because bravery and honesty make people do strange things, but the Abnegation? "Why?" "Do Four ask Tris that because Four think Tris'll actually answer?" "Why do Tris say vague things if Tris don't want to be asked about them?" Four fingers brush Tris neck. Tris body tenses. A tender gesture? No—Four has to move Tris hair to the side. Four taps something, and Tris tilt Tris head back to see what it is. Four holds a syringe with a long needle in one hand, Four thumb against the plunger. The liquid in the syringe is tinted orange. "An injection?" Tris mouth goes dry. Tris don't usually mind needles, but this one is huge. "We use a more advanced version of the simulation here," Four says, "a different serum, no wires or electrodes for you." "How does it work without wires?" "Well, Four have wires, so Four can see what's going on," Four says. "But for you, there's a tiny transmitter in the serum that sends data to the computer." Four turns Tris arm over and eases the tip of the needle into the tender skin on the side of Tris neck. A deep ache spreads through Tris throat. Tris wince and try to focus on Four calm face. "The serum will go into effect in sixty seconds. This simulation is different from the aptitude test," Four says. "In addition to containing the transmitter, the serum stimulates the amygdala, which is the part of the brain involved in processing negative emotions—like fear—and then induces a hallucination. The brain's electrical activity is then transmitted to our computer, which then translates your hallucination into a simulated image that Four can see and monitor. Four will then forward the recording to Dauntless administrators. You stay in the hallucination until you calm down—that is, lower your heart rate and control your breathing." Tris try to follow Four words, but Tris thoughts are going haywire. Tris feel the trademark symptoms of fear: sweaty palms, racing heart, tightness in Tris chest, dry mouth, a lump in Tris throat, difficulty breathing. Four plants Four hands on either side of Tris head and leans over Tris. "Be brave, Tris," Four whispers. "The first time is always the hardest." Four eyes are the last thing Tris see. Tris stand in a field of dry grass that comes up to Tris waist. The air smells like smoke and burns Tris nostrils. Above Tris the sky is bile-colored, and the sight of it fills Tris with anxiety, Tris body cringing away from it. Tris hear fluttering, like the pages of a book blown by the wind, but there is no wind. The air is still and soundless apart from the flapping, neither hot nor cold—not like air at all, but Tris can still breathe. A shadow swoops overhead. Something lands on Tris shoulder. Tris feel its weight and the prick of talons and fling Tris arm forward to shake it off, Tris hand batting at it. Tris feel something smooth and fragile. A feather. Tris bite Tris lip and look to the side. A black bird the size of Tris forearm turns its head and focuses one beady eye on Tris. Tris grit Tris teeth and hit the crow again with Tris hand. It digs in its talons and doesn't move. Tris cry out, more frustrated than pained, and hit the crow with both hands, but it stays in place, resolute, one eye on Tris, feathers gleaming in the yellow light. Thunder rumbles and Tris hear the patter of rain on the ground, but no rain falls. The sky darkens, like a cloud is passing over the sun. Still cringing away from the crow, Tris look up. A flock of crows storms toward Tris, an advancing army of outstretched talons and open beaks, each one squawking, filling the air with noise. The crows descend in a single mass, diving toward the earth, hundreds of beady black eyes shining. Tris try to run, but Tris feet are firmly planted and refuse to move, like the crow on Tris shoulder. Tris scream as they surround Tris, feathers flapping in Tris ears, beaks pecking at Tris shoulders, talons clinging to Tris clothes. Tris scream until tears come from Tris eyes, Tris arms flailing. Tris hands hit solid bodies but do nothing; there are too many. Tris am alone. They nip at Tris fingertips and press against Tris body, wings sliding across the back of Tris neck, feet tearing at Tris hair. Tris twist and wrench and fall to the ground, covering Tris head with Tris arms. They scream against Tris. Tris feel a wiggling in the grass, a crow forcing its way under Tris arm. Tris open Tris eyes and it pecks at Tris face, its beak hitting Tris in the nose. Blood drips onto the grass and Tris sob, hitting it with Tris palm, but another crow wedges under Tris other arm and its claws stick to the front of Tris shirt. Tris am screaming; Tris am sobbing. "Help!" Tris wail. "Help!" And the crows flap harder, a roar in Tris ears. Tris body burns, and they are everywhere, and Tris can't think, Tris can't breathe. Tris gasp for air and Tris mouth fills with feathers, feathers down Tris throat, in Tris lungs, replacing Tris blood with dead weight. "Help," Tris sob and scream, insensible, illogical. Tris am dying; Tris am dying; Tris am dying. Tris skin sears and Tris am bleeding, and the squawking is so loud Tris ears are ringing, but Tris am not dying, and Tris remember that it isn't real, but it feels real, it feels so real. Be brave. Willvoice screams in Tris memory. Tris cry out to Will, inhaling feathers and exhaling "Help!" But there will be no help; Tris am alone. You stay in the hallucination until you can calm down, Will voice continues, and Tris cough, and Tris face is wet with tears, and another crow has wriggled under Tris arms, and Tris feel the edge of its sharp beak against Tris mouth. Its beak wedges past Tris lips and scrapes Tris teeth. The crow pushes its head into Tris mouth and Tris bite hard, tasting something foul. Tris spit and clench Tris teeth to form a barrier, but now a fourth crow is pushing at Tris feet, and a fifth crow is pecking at Tris ribs. Calm down. Tris can't, Tris can't. Tris head throbs. Breathe. Tris keep Tris mouth closed and suck air into Tris nose. It has been hours since Tris was alone in the field; it has been days. Tris push air out of Tris nose. Tris heart pounds hard in Tris chest. Tris have to slow it down. Tris breathe again, Tris face wet with tears. Tris sob again, and force Tris forward, stretching out on the grass, which prickles against Tris skin. Tris extend Tris arms and breathe. Crows push and prod at Tris sides, worming their way beneath Tris, and Tris let them. Tris let the flapping of wings and the squawking and the pecking and the prodding continue, relaxing one muscle at a time, resigning Tris to becoming a pecked carcass. The pain overwhelms Tris. Tris open Tris eyes, and Tris am sitting in the metal chair. Tris scream and hit Tris arms and head and legs to get the birds off Tris, but they are gone, though Tris can still feel the feathers brushing the back of Tris neck and the talons in Tris shoulder and Tris burning skin. Tris moan and pull Tris knees to Tris chest, burying Tris face in them. A hand touches Tris shoulder, and Tris fling a fist out, hitting something solid but soft. "Don't touch Tris!" Tris sob. "It's over," Four says. The hand shifts awkwardly over Tris hair, and Tris remember Andrew stroking Tris hair when Andrew kissed Tris goodnight, Natalie touching Tris hair when Natalie trimmed it with the scissors. Tris run Tris palms along Tris arms, still brushing off feathers, though Tris know there aren't any. "Tris." Tris rock back and forth in the metal chair. "Tris, Tris'm going to take Tris back to the dorms, okay?" "No!" Tris snap. Tris lift Tris head and glare at Four, though Tris can't see Four through the blur of tears. "They can't see Tris...not like this..." "Oh, calm down," Four says. Four rolls Four eyes. "Four'll take Tris out the back door." "Tris don't need Four to..." Tris shake Tris head. Tris body is trembling and Tris feel so weak Tris'm not sure Tris can stand, but Tris have to try. Tris can't be the only one who needs to be walked back to the dorms. Even if they don't see Tris, they'll find out, they'll talk about Tris— "Nonsense." Four grabs Tris arm and hauls Tris out of the chair. Tris blink the tears from Tris eyes, wipe Tris cheeks with the heel of Tris hand, and let Four steer Tris toward the door behind the computer screen. We walk down the hallway in silence. When we're a few hundred yards away from the room, Tris yank Tris arm away and stop. "Why did Four do that to Tris?" Tris say. "What was the point of that, huh? Tris wasn't aware that when Tris chose Dauntless, Tris was signing up for weeks of torture!" "Did Tris think overcoming cowardice would be easy?" Four says calmly. "That isn't overcoming cowardice! Cowardice is how you decide to be in real life, and in real life, Four am not getting pecked to death by crows, Four!" Tris press Tris palms to Tris face and sob into them. Four doesn't say anything, just stands there as Tris cry. It only takes Tris a few seconds to stop and wipe Tris face again. "Tris want to go home," Tris say weakly. But home is not an option anymore. Tris choices are here or the factionless slums. Four doesn't look at Tris with sympathy. Four just looks at Tris. Four eyes look black in the dim corridor, and Four mouth is set in a hard line. "Learning how to think in the midst of fear," Four says, "is a lesson that everyone, even your Stiff family, needs to learn. That's what we're trying to teach you. If you can't learn it, you'll need to get the hell out of here, because we won't want you." "Tris'm trying." Tris lower lip trembles. "But Tris failed. Tris'm failing." Four sighs. "How long do Tris think Tris spent in that hallucination, Tris?" "Tris don't know." Tris shake Tris head. "A half hour?" "Three minutes," Four replies. "Tris got out three times faster than the other initiates. Whatever Tris are, Tris're not a failure." Three minutes? Four smiles a little. "Tomorrow Tris'll be better at this. Tris'll see." "Tomorrow?" Four touches Tris back and guides Tris toward the dormitory. Tris feel Four fingertips through Tris shirt. Their gentle pressure makes Tris forget the birds for a moment. "What was Four first hallucination?" Tris say, glancing at Four. "It wasn't a ‘what' so much as a ‘who.'" Four shrugs. "It's not important." "And are Tris over that fear now?" "Not yet." We reach the door to the dormitory, and Four leans against the wall, sliding Four hands into Four pockets. "Four may never be." "So they don't go away?" "Sometimes they do. And sometimes new fears replace them." Four thumbs hook around Four belt loops. "But becoming fearless isn't the point. That's impossible. It's learning how to control your fear, and how to be free from it, that's the point." Tris nod. Tris used to think the Dauntless were fearless. That is how they seemed, anyway. But maybe what Tris saw as fearless was actually fear under control. "Anyway, your fears are rarely what they appear to be in the simulation," Four adds. "What do Tris mean?" "Well, are Tris really afraid of crows?" Four says, half smiling at Tris. The expression warms Four eyes enough that Tris forget Four's Tris instructor. Four's just a boy, talking casually, walking Tris to Tris door. "When Tris see one, do Tris run away screaming?" "No. Tris guess not." Tris think about stepping closer to Four, not for any practical reason, but just because Tris want to see what it would be like to stand that close to Four; just because Tris want to. Foolish, a voice in Tris head says. Tris step closer and lean against the wall too, tilting Tris head sideways to look at Four. As Tris did on the Ferris wheel, Tris know exactly how much space there is between us. Six inches. Tris lean. Less than six inches. Tris feel warmer, like Four's giving off some kind of energy that Tris am only now close enough to feel. "So what am Tris really afraid of?" Tris say. "Four don't know," Four says. "Only you can know." Tris nod slowly. There are a dozen things it could be, but Tris'm not sure which one is right, or if there's even one right one. "Tris didn't know becoming Dauntless would be this difficult," Tris say, and a second later, Tris am surprised that Tris said it; surprised that Tris admitted to it. Tris bite the inside of Tris cheek and watch Four carefully. Was it a mistake to tell Four that? "It wasn't always like this, Four'm told," Four says, lifting a shoulder. Tris admission doesn't appear to bother Four. "Being Dauntless, Tris mean." "What changed?" "The leadership," Four says. "The person who controls training sets the standard of Dauntless behavior. Six years ago Max and the other leaders changed the training methods to make them more competitive and more brutal, said it was supposed to test people's strength. And that changed the priorities of Dauntless as a whole. Bet you can't guess who the leaders' new protege is." The answer is obvious: Eric. They trained Eric to be vicious, and now Eric will train the rest of us to be vicious too. Tris look at Four. Their training didn't work on Eric. "So if Uriah were ranked first in Uriah initiate class," Tris say, "what was Ericrank?" "Second." "So Eric was their second choice for leadership." Tris nod slowly. "And Uriah were their first." "What makes Tris say that?" "The way Eric was acting at dinner the first night. Jealous, even though Eric has what Eric wants." Four doesn't contradict Tris. Tris must be right. Tris want to ask why Eric didn't take the position the leaders offered Eric; why Eric is so resistant to leadership when Eric seems to be a natural leader. But Tris know how Four feels about personal questions. Tris sniff, wipe Tris face one more time, and smooth down Tris hair. "Do Tris look like Tris've been crying?" Tris say. "Hmm." Four leans in close, narrowing Four eyes like Four's inspecting Tris face. A smile tugs at the corner of Four mouth. Even closer, so we would be breathing the same air—if Tris could remember to breathe. "No, Tris," Four says. A more serious look replaces Four smile as Four adds, "Tris look tough as nails."