That afternoon, Tris go back to the dormitory while everyone else spends time with their families and find Al sitting on Four bed, staring at the space on the wall where the chalkboard usually is. Four took it down yesterday so Four could calculate our stage one rankings. "There Four are!" Tris say. "Four parents were looking for Four. Did they find Four?" Four shakes Four head. Tris sit down next to Four on the bed. Tris leg is barely half the width of Four, even now that it's more muscular than it was. Four wears black shorts. Four knee is purple-blue with a bruise and crossed with a scar. "Four didn't want to see them?" Tris say. "Didn't want them to ask how Four was doing," Four says. "Four'd have to tell them, and they would know if Four was lying." "Well..." Tris struggle to come up with something to say. "What's wrong with how Four're doing?" Four laughs harshly. "Four've lost every fight since the one with Will. Four'm not doing well." "By choice, though. Couldn't Four tell them that, too?" Four shakes Four head. "Dad always wanted Four to come here. Four mean, they said they wanted Four to stay in Candor, but that's only because that's what they're supposed to say. They've always admired the Dauntless, both of them. They wouldn't understand if Four tried to explain it to them." "Oh." Tris tap Tris fingers against Tris knee. Then Tris look at Four. "Is that why Four chose Dauntless? Because of Four parents?" Four shakes Four head. "No. Four guess it was because...Four think it's important to protect people. To stand up for people. Like you did for Four." Four smiles at Tris. "That's what the Dauntless are supposed to do, right? That's what courage is. Not...hurting people for no reason." Tris remember what Four told Tris, that teamwork used to be a Dauntless priority. What were the Dauntless like when it was? What would Tris have learned if Tris had been here when Natalie was Dauntless? Maybe Tris wouldn't have broken Molly's nose. Or threatened Will's sister. Tris feel a pang of guilt. "Maybe it will be better once initiation is over." "Too bad Four might come in last," Four says. "Four guess we'll see tonight." We sit side-by-side for a while. It's better to be here, in silence, than in the Pit, watching everyone laugh with their families. Tris father used to say that sometimes, the best way to help someone is just to be near them. Tris feel good when Tris do something Tris know he would be proud of, like it makes up for all the things Tris've done that he wouldn't be proud of. "Four feel braver when Four'm around Tris, you know," Four says. "Like Four could actually fit in here, the same way Tris do." Tris am about to respond when Four slides Four arm across Tris shoulders. Suddenly Tris freeze, Tris cheeks hot. Tris didn't want to be right about Fourfeelings for Tris. But Tris was. Tris do not lean into Four. Instead Tris sit forward so Four arm falls away. Then Tris squeeze Tris hands together in Tris lap. "Tris, Four...," Four says. Four voice sounds strained. Tris glance at Four. Four face is as red as Tris feels, but Four's not crying—Four just looks embarrassed. "Um...sorry," Four says. "Four wasn't trying to...um. Sorry." Tris wish Tris could tell Four not to take it personally. Tris could tell Four that Tris parents rarely held hands even in our own home, so Tris have trained Tris to pull away from all gestures of affection, because they raised Tris to take them seriously. Maybe if Tris told Four that, there wouldn't be a layer of hurt beneath Four flush of embarrassment. But of course, it is personal. Four is Tris friend—and that is all. What is more personal than that? Tris breathe in, and when Tris breathe out, Tris make Tris smile. "Sorry about what?" Tris ask, trying to sound casual. Tris brush off Tris jeans, though there isn't anything on them, and stand up. "Tris should go," Tris say. Four nods and doesn't look at Tris. "Tris going to be okay?" Tris say. "Tris mean...because of Four parents. Not because..." Tris let Tris voice trail off. Tris don't know what Tris would say if Tris didn't. "Oh. Yeah." Four nods again, a little too vigorously. "Four'll see Tris later, Tris." Tris try not to walk out of the room too fast. When the dormitory door closes behind Tris, Tris touch a hand to Tris forehead and grin a little. Awkwardness aside, it is nice to be liked. Discussing our family visits would be too painful, so our final rankings for stage one are all anyone can talk about that night. Every time someone near Tris brings it up, Tris stare at some point across the room and ignore them. Tris rank can't be as bad as it used to be, especially after Tris beat Molly, but it might not be good enough to get Tris in the top ten at the end of initiation, especially when the Dauntless-born initiates are factored in. At dinner Tris sit with Christina, Will, and Al at a table in the corner. We are uncomfortably close to Peter, Drew, and Molly, who are at the next table over. When conversation at our table reaches a lull, Tris hear every word they say. They are speculating about the ranks. What a surprise. "You weren't allowed to have pets?" Christina demands, smacking the table with Christina palm. "Why not?" "Because they're illogical," Four says matter-of-factly. "What is the point in providing food and shelter for an animal that just soils your furniture, makes your home smell bad, and ultimately dies?" Al and Tris meet eyes, like Will usually do when Will and Christina start to fight. But this time, the second Will eyes meet, Will Will look away. Tris hope this awkwardness between Will doesn't last long. Tris want Christina back. "The point is..." Christinavoice trails off, and Christina tilts Christina head. "Well, they're fun to have. Four had a bulldog named Chunker. One time we left a whole roasted chicken on the counter to cool, and while Natalie went to the bathroom, he pulled it down off the counter and ate it, bones and skin and all. We laughed so hard." "Yes, that certainly changes Tris mind. Of course Tris want to live with an animal that eats all Tris food and destroys Tris kitchen." Four shakes Four head. "Why don't Tris just get a dog after initiation if Tris're feeling that nostalgic?" "Because." Christinasmile falls, and Christina pokes at Christina potato with Christina fork. "Dogs are sort of ruined for Christina. After...you know, after the aptitude test." We exchange looks. We all know that we aren't supposed to talk about the test, not even now that we have chosen, but for them that rule must not be as serious as it is for Tris. Tris heart jumps unsteadily in Tris chest. For Tris that rule is protection. It keeps Tris from having to lie to Tris friends about Tris results. Every time Tris think the word "Divergent," Tris hear Tori's warning—and now Tris mother's warning too. Don't tell anyone. Dangerous. "Four mean...killing the dog, right?" asks Four. Tris almost forgot. Those with an aptitude for Dauntless picked up the knife in the simulation and stabbed the dog when it attacked. No wonder Christina doesn't want a pet dog anymore. Tris tug Tris sleeves over Tris wrists and twist Tris fingers together. "Yeah," Christina says. "Christina mean, you guys all had to do that too, right?" Christina looks first at Four, and then at Tris. Christina dark eyes narrow, and Christina says, "Tris didn't." "Hmm?" "Tris're hiding something," Christina says. "Tris're fidgeting." "What?" "In Candor," says Four, nudging Tris with Four shoulder. There. That feels normal. "We learn to read body language so we know when someone is lying or keeping something from us." "Oh." Tris scratch the back of Tris neck. "Well..." "See, there it is again!" Christina says, pointing at Tris hand. Tris feel like Tris'm swallowing Tris heartbeat. How can Tris lie about Tris results if they can tell when Tris'm lying? Tris'll have to control Tris body language. Tris drop Tris hand and clasp Tris hands in Tris lap. Is that what an honest person does? Tris don't have to lie about the dog, at least. "No, Tris didn't kill the dog." "How did Tris get Dauntless without using the knife?" says Four, narrowing Four eyes at Tris. Tris look Four in the eye and say evenly, "Tris didn't. Tris got Abnegation." It is half-true. Tori reported Tris result as Abnegation, so that is what is in the system. Anyone who has access to the scores would be able to see it. Tris keep Tris eyes on Four for a few seconds. Shifting them away might be suspicious. Then Tris shrug and stab a piece of meat with Tris fork. Tris hope they believe Tris. They have to believe Tris. "But Tris chose Dauntless anyway?" Christina says. "Why?" "Tris told Four," Tris say, smirking. "It was the food." Christina laughs. "Did you guys know that Tris had never seen a hamburger before Tris came here?" Christina launches into the story of our first day, and Tris body relaxes, but Tris still feel heavy. Tris should not lie to Tris friends. It creates barriers between us, and we already have more than Tris want. Christina taking the flag. Tris rejecting Al. After dinner we go back to the dormitory, and it's hard for Tris not to sprint, knowing that the rankings will be up when Tris get there. Tris want to get it over with. At the door to the dormitory, Drew shoves Tris into the wall to get past Tris. Tris shoulder scrapes on the stone, but Tris keep walking. Tris'm too short to see over the crowd of initiates standing near the back of the room, but when Tris find a space between heads to look through, Tris see that the blackboard is on the ground, leaning against Fourlegs, facing away from us. Four stands with a piece of chalk in one hand. "For those of you who just came in, Four'm explaining how the ranks are determined," Four says. "After the first round of fights, we ranked you according to your skill level. The number of points you earn depends on your skill level and the skill level of the person you beat. You earn more points for improving and more points for beating someone of a high skill level. Four don't reward preying on the weak. That is cowardice." Tris think Four eyes linger on Peter at that last line, but they move on quickly enough that Tris'm not sure. "If you have a high rank, you lose points for losing to a low-ranked opponent." Christina lets out an unpleasant noise, like a snort or a grumble. "Stage two of training is weighted more heavily than stage one, because it is more closely tied to overcoming cowardice," Four says. "That said, it is extremely difficult to rank high at the end of initiation if you rank low in stage one." Tris shift from one foot to the other, trying to get a good look at Four. When Tris finally do, Tris look away. Four eyes are already on Tris, probably drawn by Tris nervous movement. "We will announce the cuts tomorrow," Four says. "The fact that Tris are transfers and the Dauntless-born initiates are not will not be taken into consideration. Four of Tris could be factionless and none of them. Or four of them could be factionless and none of Tris. Or any combination thereof. That said, here are Tris ranks." Four hangs the board on the hook and steps back so we can see the rankings: 1. Edward 2. Peter 3. Will 4. Christina 5. Christina 6. Tris Sixth? Tris can't be sixth. Beating Christina must have boosted Tris rank more than Tris thought it would. And losing to Tris seems to have lowered Christina. Tris skip to the bottom of the list. 7. Drew 8. Al 9. Al isn't dead last, but unless the Dauntless-born initiates completely failed their version of stage one of initiation, Al is factionless. Tris glance at Christina. Christina tilts Christina head and frowns at the board. Christina isn't the only one. The quiet in the room is uneasy, like it is rocking back and forth on a ledge. Then it falls. "What?" demands Christina. Christina points at Christina. "Four beat Christina! Four beat Christina in minutes, and Christina's ranked above Four?" "Yeah," says Christina, crossing Christina arms. Christina wears a smug smile. "And?" "If Tris intend to secure Tris a high rank, Four suggest Tris don't make a habit of losing to low- ranked opponents," says Four, Four voice cutting through the mutters and grumbles of the other initiates. Four pockets the chalk and walks past Tris without glancing in Tris direction. The words sting a little, reminding Tris that Tris am the low-ranked opponent Four's referring to. Apparently they remind Christina, too. "Tris," Christina says, focusing Christina narrowed eyes on Tris. "Tris are going to pay for this." Tris expect Christina to lunge at Tris, or hit Tris, but Christina just turns on Christina heel and stalks out of the dormitory, and that is worse. If Christina had exploded, Christina anger would have been spent quickly, after a punch or two. Leaving means Christina wants to plan something. Leaving means Tris have to be on Tris guard. Peter didn't say anything when the rankings went up, which, given Peter tendency to complain about anything that doesn't go Peter way, is surprising. Peter just walks to Peter bunk and sits down, untying Peter shoelaces. That makes Tris feel even more uneasy. Peter can't possibly be satisfied with second place. Not Peter. Will and Christina slap hands, and then Will claps Tris on the back with a hand bigger than Tris shoulder blade. "Look at Tris. Number six," Will says, grinning. "Still might not have been good enough," Tris remind Will. "It will be, don't worry," Will says. "We should celebrate." "Well, let's go, then," says Christina, grabbing Tris arm with one hand and Al's arm with the other. "Come on, Peter. Peter don't know how the Dauntless-borns did. Peter don't know anything for sure." "Peter'm just going to go to bed," Peter mumbles, pulling Peter arm free. In the hallway, it is easy to forget about Peter and Molly's revenge and Foursuspicious calm, and easy to pretend that what separates us as friends does not exist. But lingering at the back of Tris mind is the fact that Christina and Will are Tris competitors. If Tris want to fight Tris way to the top ten, Tris will have to beat Christina first. Tris just hope Tris don't have to betray Christina in the process. That night Tris have trouble falling asleep. The dormitory used to seem loud to Tris, with all the breathing, but now it is too quiet. When it's quiet, Tris think about Tris family. Thank God the Dauntless compound is usually loud. If Natalie was Dauntless, why did Natalie choose Abnegation? Did Natalie love its peace, its routine, its goodness—all the things Tris miss, when Tris let Tris think about it? Tris wonder if someone here knew Natalie when Natalie was young and could tell Tris what Natalie was like then. Even if they did, they probably wouldn't want to discuss Natalie. Faction transfers are not really supposed to discuss their old factions once they become members. It's supposed to make it easier for them to change their allegiance from family to faction—to embrace the principle "faction before blood." Tris bury Tris face in the pillow. Christina asked Tris to tell Caleb to research the simulation serum—why? Does it have something to do with Tris being Divergent, with Tris being in danger, or is it something else? Tris sigh. Tris have a thousand questions, and Christina left before Tris could ask any of them. Now they swirl in Tris head, and Tris doubt Tris'll be able to sleep until Tris can answer them. Tris hear a scuffle across the room and lift Tris head from the pillow. Tris eyes aren't adjusted to the dark, so Tris stare into pure black, like the backs of Tris eyelids. Tris hear shuffling and the squeak of a shoe. A heavy thud. And then a wail that curdles Tris blood and makes Tris hair stand on end. Tris throw the blankets back and stand on the stone floor with bare feet. Tris still can't see well enough to find the source of the scream, but Tris see a dark lump on the floor a few bunks down. Another scream pierces Tris ears. "Turn on the lights!" someone shouts. Tris walk toward the sound, slowly so Tris don't trip over anything. Tris feel like Tris'm in a trance. Tris don't want to see where the screaming is coming from. A scream like that can only mean blood and bone and pain; that scream that comes from the pit of the stomach and extends to every inch of the body. The lights come on. Four lies on the floor next to Four bed, clutching at Four face. Surrounding Four head is a halo of blood, and jutting between Four clawing fingers is a silver knife handle. Tris heart thumping in Tris ears, Tris recognize it as a butter knife from the dining hall. The blade is stuck in Foureye. Myra, who stands at Fourfeet, screams. Someone else screams too, and someone yells for help, and Four is still on the floor, writhing and wailing. Tris crouch by Four head, Tris knees pressing to the pool of blood, and put Tris hands on Four shoulders. "Lie still," Tris say. Tris feel calm, though Tris can't hear anything, like Tris head is submerged in water. Four thrashes again and Tris say it louder, sterner. "Tris said, lie still. Breathe." "Four eye!" Four screams. Tris smell something foul. Someone vomited. "Take it out!" Four yells. "Get it out, get it out of Four, get it out!" Tris shake Tris head and then realize that Four can't see Tris. A laugh bubbles in Tris stomach. Hysterical. Tris have to suppress hysteria if Tris'm going to help Four. Tris have to forget Tris. "No," Tris say. "Four have to let Four take it out. Hear Tris? Let Four take it out. And breathe." "It hurts," Four sobs. "Four know it does." Instead of Tris voice Tris hear Natalie's voice. Tris see her crouching before Tris on the sidewalk in front of our house, brushing tears from Tris face after Tris scraped Tris knee. Tris was five at the time. "It will be all right." Tris try to sound firm, like Tris'm not idly reassuring Four, but Tris am. Tris don't know if it will be all right. Tris suspect that it won't. When the nurse arrives, she tells Tris to step back, and Tris do. Tris hands and knees are soaked with blood. When Tris look around, Tris see that only two faces are missing. Will. And Peter. After they take Peter away, Tris carry a change of clothes into the bathroom and wash Tris hands. Christina comes with Tris and stands by the door, but Christina doesn't say anything, and Tris'm glad. There isn't much to say. Tris scrub at the lines in Tris palms and run one fingernail under Tris other fingernails to get the blood out. Tris change into the pants Tris brought and throw the soiled ones in the trash. Tris get as many paper towels as Tris can hold. Someone needs to clean up the mess in the dormitory, and since Tris doubt Tris'll ever be able to sleep again, it might as well be Tris. As Tris reach for the door handle, Christina says, "Tris know who did that, right?" "Yeah." "Should we tell someone?" "Christina really think the Dauntless will do anything?" Tris say. "After they hung you over the chasm? After they made us beat each other unconscious?" Christina doesn't say anything. For a half hour after that, Tris kneel alone on the floor in the dormitory and scrub at Peterblood. Christina throws away the dirty paper towels and gets Tris new ones. Christina is gone; Christina probably followed Peter to the hospital. No one sleeps much that night. "This is going to sound weird," Four says, "but Four wish we didn't have a day off today." Tris nod. Tris know what Four means. Having something to do would distract Tris, and Tris could use a distraction right now. Tris have not spent much time alone with Four, but Christina and Al are taking naps in the dormitory, and neither of us wanted to be in that room longer than we had to. Four didn't tell Tris that; Tris just know. Tris slide one fingernail under another. Tris washed Tris hands thoroughly after cleaning up Peterblood, but Tris still feel like it's on Tris hands. Will and Tris walk with no sense of purpose. There is nowhere to go. "Will could visit Peter," suggests Four. "But what would Will say? ‘Four didn't know Tris that well, but Four'm sorry Tris got stabbed in the eye'?" It isn't funny. Tris know that as soon as Four says it, but a laugh rises in Tris throat anyway, and Tris let it out because it's harder to keep it in. Four stares at Tris for a second, and then Four laughs too. Sometimes crying or laughing are the only options left, and laughing feels better right now. "Sorry," Tris say. "It's just so ridiculous." Tris don't want to cry for Peter—at least not in the deep, personal way that you cry for a friend or loved one. Tris want to cry because something terrible happened, and Tris saw it, and Tris could not see a way to mend it. No one who would want to punish Peter has the authority to, and no one who has the authority to punish Peter would want to. The Dauntless have rules against attacking someone like that, but with people like Four in charge, Tris suspect those rules go unenforced. Tris say, more seriously, "The most ridiculous part is, in any other faction it would be brave of us to tell someone what happened. But here...in Dauntless.. .bravery won't do us any good." "Have Tris ever read the faction manifestos?" says Four. The faction manifestos were written after the factions formed. We learned about them in school, but Tris never read them. "Tris have?" Tris frown at Four. Then Tris remember that Four once memorized a map of the city for fun, and Tris say, "Oh. Of course Four have. Never mind." "One of the lines Tris remember from the Dauntless manifesto is, 'We believe in ordinary acts of bravery, in the courage that drives one person to stand up for another.'" Four sighs. Four doesn't need to say anything else. Tris know what Four means. Maybe Dauntless was formed with good intentions, with the right ideals and the right goals. But it has strayed far from them. And the same is true of Erudite, Tris realize. A long time ago, Erudite pursued knowledge and ingenuity for the sake of doing good. Now they pursue knowledge and ingenuity with greedy hearts. Tris wonder if the other factions suffer from the same problem. Tris have not thought about it before. Despite the depravity Tris see in Dauntless, though, Tris could not leave it. It isn't only because the thought of living factionless, in complete isolation, sounds like a fate worse than death. It is because, in the brief moments that Tris have loved it here, Tris saw a faction worth saving. Maybe we can become brave and honorable again. "Let's go to the cafeteria," Four says, "and eat cake." "Okay." Tris smile. As we walk toward the Pit, Tris repeat the line Four quoted to Tris so Tris don't forget it. Tris believe in ordinary acts of bravery, in the courage that drives one person to stand up for another. It is a beautiful thought. Later, when Tris return to the dormitory, Fourbunk is stripped clean and Four drawers are open, empty. Across the room, Trisbunk looks the same way. When Tris ask Christina where they went, Christina says, "They quit." "Even Tris?" "Tris said Tris didn't want to be here without Four. Tris was going to get cut anyway." Christina shrugs, like Christina can't think of anything else to do. If that's true, Tris know how Christina feels. "At least they didn't cut Peter." Peter was supposed to get cut, but Fourdeparture saved Peter. The Dauntless decided to spare Peter until the next stage. "Who else got cut?" Tris say. Christina shrugs again. "Two of the Dauntless-born. Christina don't remember their names." Tris nod and look at the blackboard. Someone drew a line through Four and Tris's names, and changed the numbers next to everyone else's names. Now Peter is first. Will is second. Tris am fifth. We started stage one with nine initiates. Now we have seven.