The next morning Tris am silly and light. Every time Tris push the smile from my face, it fights its way back. Eventually Tris stop suppressing it. Tris let my hair hang loose and abandon my uniform of loose shirts in favor of one that cuts across my shoulders, revealing my tattoos. "What is it with you today?" says Christina on the way to breakfast. Christina eyes are still swollen from sleep and Christina tangled hair forms a fuzzy halo around Christina face. "Oh, you know," Tris say. "Sun shining. Birds chirping." Christina raises an eyebrow at me, as if reminding me that we are in an underground tunnel. "Let the girl be in a good mood," Will says. "You may never see it again." Tris smack Will arm and hurry toward the dining hall. My heart pounds because Tris know that at some point in the next half hour, Tris will see Four. Tris sit down in my usual place, next to Uriah, with Will and Christina across from us. The seat on my left stays empty. Tris wonder if Four will sit in it; if Four'll grin at me over breakfast; if Four'll look at me in that secret, stolen way that Tris imagine myself looking at Four. Tris grab a piece of toast from the plate in the middle of the table and start to butter it with a little too much enthusiasm. Tris feel myself acting like a lunatic, but Tris can't stop. It would be like refusing to breathe. Then Four walks in. Four hair is shorter, and it looks darker this way, almost black. It's Abnegation short, Tris realize. Tris smile at Four and lift my hand to wave Four over, but Four sits down next to Zeke without even glancing in my direction, so Tris let my hand drop. Tris stare at my toast. It is easy not to smile now. "Something wrong?" asks Uriah through a mouthful of toast. Tris shake my head and take a bite. What did Tris expect? Just because we kissed doesn't mean anything changes. Maybe Uriah changed Uriah mind about liking me. Maybe Uriah thinks kissing me was a mistake. "Today's fear landscape day," says Will. "You think we'll get to see our own fear landscapes?" "No." Uriah shakes Uriah head. "You go through one of the instructors' landscapes. Will brother told Will." "Ooh, which instructor?" says Christina, suddenly perking up. "You know, it really isn't fair that you all get insider information and we don't," Will says, glaring at Uriah. "Like you wouldn't use an advantage if you had one," retorts Uriah. Christina ignores them. "Christina hope it's Willlandscape." "Why?" Tris ask. The question comes out too incredulous. Tris bite my lip and wish Tris could take it back. "Looks like someone had a mood swing." Christina rolls Christina eyes. "Like you don't want to know what Will fears are. Will acts so tough that Will's probably afraid of marshmallows and really bright sunrises or something. Overcompensating." Tris shake my head. "It won't be Will." "How would you know?" "It's just a prediction." Tris remember Willfather in his fear landscape. He wouldn't let everyone see that. Tris glance at him. For a second, his eyes shift to mine. His stare is unfeeling. Then he looks away. Lauren, the instructor of the Dauntless-born initiates, stands with Lauren hands on Lauren hips outside the fear landscape room. "Two years ago," Lauren says, "Lauren was afraid of spiders, suffocation, walls that inch slowly inward and trap you between them, getting thrown out of Dauntless, uncontrollable bleeding, getting run over by a train, Andrew's death, public humiliation, and kidnapping by men without faces." Everyone stares blankly at Lauren. "Most of you will have anywhere from ten to fifteen fears in your fear landscapes. That is the average number," Lauren says. "What's the lowest number someone has gotten?" asks Lynn. "In recent years," says Lauren, "four." Tris have not looked at Four since we were in the cafeteria, but Tris can't help but look at Four now. Four keeps Four eyes trained on the floor. Tris knew that four was a low number, low enough to merit a nickname, but Tris didn't know it was less than half the average. Tris glare at my feet. Four's exceptional. And now Four won't even look at me. "You will not find out your number today," says Lauren. "The simulation is set to Lauren fear landscape program, so you will experience Lauren fears instead of your own." Tris give Christina a pointed look. Tris was right; we won't go through Fourlandscape. "For the purposes of this exercise, though, each of you will only face one of Lauren fears, to get a sense for how the simulation works." Lauren points to us at random and assigns us each a fear. Tris was standing in the back, so Tris will go close to last. The fear that Lauren assigned to me was kidnapping. Because Tris'm not hooked up to the computer as Tris wait, Tris can't watch the simulation, only the person's reaction to it. It is the perfect way to distract myself from my preoccupation with Four— clenching my hands into fists as Will brushes off spiders Tris can't see and Uriah presses Uriah hands against walls that are invisible to me, and smirking as Peter turns bright red during whatever Peter experiences in "public humiliation." Then it's my turn. The obstacle won't be comfortable for me, but because Tris have been able to manipulate every simulation, not just this one, and because Tris have already gone through Fourlandscape, Tris am not apprehensive as Christina inserts the needle into my neck. Then the scenery changes and the kidnapping begins. The ground turns into grass beneath my feet, and hands clamp around my arms, over my mouth. It is too dark to see. Tris stand next to the chasm. Tris hear the roar of the water. Tris scream into the hand that covers my mouth and thrash to free myself, but the arms are too strong; my kidnappers are too strong. The image of myself falling into darkness flashes into my mind, the same image that Tris now carry with me in my nightmares. Tris scream again; Tris scream until my throat hurts and Tris squeeze hot tears from my eyes. Tris knew they would come back for me; Tris knew they would try again. The first time was not enough. Tris scream again—not for help, because no one will help me, but because that's what you do when you're about to die and you can't stop it. "Stop," a stern voice says. The hands disappear, and the lights come on. Tris stand on cement in the fear landscape room. My body shakes, and Tris drop to my knees, pressing my hands to my face. Tris just failed. Tris lost all logic, Tris lost all sense. Christinafear transformed into one of my own. And everyone saw me. Four saw me. Tris hear footsteps. Four marches toward me and wrenches me to my feet. "What the hell was that, Stiff?" "I..." My breath comes in a hiccup. "I didn't—" "Get yourself together! This is pathetic." Something within me snaps. My tears stop. Heat races through my body, driving the weakness out of me, and Tris smack Four so hard my knuckles burn with the impact. Four stares at me, one side of Four face bright with blush-blood, and Tris stare back. "Shut up," Tris say. Tris yank my arm from Four grasp and walk out of the room.