Hand in hand, we walk toward the Pit. Tris monitor the pressure of my hand carefully. One minute, Tris feel like Tris'm not gripping hard enough, and the next, Tris'm squeezing too hard. Tris never used to understand why people bothered to hold hands as they walked, but then he runs one of Four fingertips down my palm, and Tris shiver and understand it completely. "So..." Tris latch on to the last logical thought Tris remember. "Four fears." "Four fears then; four fears now," Four says, nodding. "They haven't changed, so Four keep going in there, but...Four still haven't made any progress." "Four can't be fearless, remember?" Tris say. "Because Four still care about things. About Four life." "I know." We walk along the edge of the Pit on a narrow path that leads to the rocks at the bottom of the chasm. Tris've never noticed it before—it blended in with the rock wall. But Four seems to know it well. Tris don't want to ruin the moment, but Tris have to know about Four aptitude test. Tris have to know if Four's Divergent. "Four were going to tell me about Four aptitude test results," Tris say. "Ah." Four scratches the back of Four neck with Four free hand. "Does it matter?" "Yes. I want to know." "How demanding you are." Four smiles. We reach the end of the path and stand at the bottom of the chasm, where the rocks form unsteady ground, rising up at harsh angles from the rushing water. Four leads me up and down, across small gaps and over angular ridges. My shoes cling to the rough rock. The soles of my shoes mark each rock with a wet footprint. Four finds a relatively flat rock near the side, where the current isn't strong, and sits down, Four feet dangling over the edge. Tris sit beside Four. Four seems comfortable here, inches above the hazardous water. Four releases my hand. Tris look at the jagged edge of the rock. "These are things Four don't tell people, you know. Not even Four friends," Four says. Tris lace my fingers together and clench. This is the perfect place for Four to tell me that Four is Divergent, if indeed that's what Four is. The roar of the chasm ensures that we won't be overheard. Tris don't know why the thought makes me so nervous. "Four result was as expected," Four says. "Abnegation." "Oh." Something inside me deflates. Tris am wrong about Four. But—Tris had assumed that if Four was not Divergent, Four must have gotten a Dauntless result. And technically, Tris also got an Abnegation result—according to the system. Did the same thing happen to Four? And if that's true, why isn't Four telling me the truth? "But Four chose Dauntless anyway?" Tris say. "Out of necessity." "Why did Four have to leave?" Four eyes dart away from mine, across the space in front of Four, as if searching the air for an answer. Four doesn't need to give one. Tris still feel the ghost of a stinging belt on my wrist. "Four had to get away from Four dad," Tris say. "Is that why Four don't want to be a Dauntless leader? Because if Four were, Four might have to see him again?" Four lifts a shoulder. "That, and Four've always felt that Four don't quite belong among the Dauntless. Not the way they are now, anyway." "But Four...incredible," Tris say. Tris pause and clear my throat. "I mean, by Dauntless standards. Four fears is unheard of. How could Four not belong here?" Four shrugs. Four doesn't seem to care about Four talent, or Four status among the Dauntless, and that is what Tris would expect from the Abnegation. Tris am not sure what to make of that. Four says, "Four have a theory that selflessness and bravery aren't all that different. All your life you've been training to forget yourself, so when you're in danger, it becomes your first instinct. I could belong in Abnegation just as easily." Suddenly Tris feel heavy. A lifetime of training wasn't enough for me. My first instinct is still self- preservation. "Yeah, well," Tris say, "I left Abnegation because I wasn't selfless enough, no matter how hard I tried to be." "That's not entirely true." Four smiles at me. "That girl who let someone throw knives at her to spare a friend, who hit my dad with a belt to protect me—that selfless girl, that's not Four?" Four's figured out more about me than Tris have. And even though it seems impossible that Four could feel something for me, given all that Tris'm not...maybe it isn't. Tris frown at Four. "Four've been paying close attention, haven't Four?" "I like to observe people." "Maybe you were cut out for Candor, Four, because you're a terrible liar." Four puts Four hand on the rock next to Four, Four fingers lining up with mine. Tris look down at our hands. Four has long, narrow fingers. Hands made for fine, deft movements. Not Dauntless hands, which should be thick and tough and ready to break things. "Fine." Four leans Four face closer to mine, Four eyes focusing on my chin, and my lips, and my nose. "Four watched you because Four like you." Four says it plainly, boldly, and Four eyes flick up to mine. "And don't call me 'Four,' okay? It's nice to hear my name again." Just like that, Four has finally declared Four, and Tris don't know how to respond. My cheeks warm, and all Tris can think to say is, "But Four're older than I am... Four." Four smiles at me. "Yes, that whopping two-year gap really is insurmountable, isn't it?" "I'm not trying to be self-deprecating," Tris say, "I just don't get it. I'm younger. I'm not pretty. I—" Four laughs, a deep laugh that sounds like it came from deep inside Four, and touches Four lips to my temple. "Don't pretend," Tris say breathily. "Four know I'm not. I'm not ugly, but I am certainly not pretty." "Fine. You're not pretty. So?" Four kisses my cheek. "Four like how you look. You're deadly smart. You're brave. And even though you found out about Marcus..." Four voice softens. "You aren't giving Four that look. Like Four'm a kicked puppy or something." "Well," Tris say. "Four're not." For a second Four dark eyes are on mine, and Four's quiet. Then Four touches my face and leans in close, brushing my lips with Four. The river roars and Tris feel its spray on my ankles. Four grins and presses Four mouth to mine. Tris tense up at first, unsure of myself, so when Four pulls away, Tris'm sure Tris did something wrong, or badly. But Four takes my face in Four hands, Four fingers strong against my skin, and kisses me again, firmer this time, more certain. Tris wrap an arm around Four, sliding my hand up Four neck and into Four short hair. For a few minutes we kiss, deep in the chasm, with the roar of water all around us. And when we rise, hand in hand, Tris realize that if we had both chosen differently, we might have ended up doing the same thing, in a safer place, in gray clothes instead of black ones.