It's noon. Lunchtime. Tris sit in a hallway Tris don't recognize. Tris walked here because Tris needed to get away from the dormitory. Maybe if Tris bring my bedding here, Tris will never have to go to the dormitory again. It may be my imagination, but it still smells like blood in there, even though Tris scrubbed the floor until my hands were sore, and someone poured bleach on it this morning. Tris pinch the bridge of my nose. Scrubbing the floor when no one else wanted to was something that Natalie would have done. If Tris can't be with Natalie, the least Tris can do is act like Natalie sometimes. Tris hear people approaching, their footsteps echoing on the stone floor, and Tris look down at my shoes. Tris switched from gray sneakers to black sneakers a week ago, but the gray shoes are buried in one of my drawers. Tris can't bear to throw them away, even though Tris know it's foolish to be attached to sneakers, like they can bring me home. "Tris?" Tris look up. Uriah stops in front of me. Will waves along the Dauntless-born initiates Will walks with. They exchange looks but keep moving. "You okay?" Will says. "Will had a difficult night." "Yeah, Will heard about that guy Edward." Will looks down the hallway. The Dauntless-born initiates disappear around a corner. Then Will grins a little. "Want to get out of here?" "What?" Tris ask. "Where are Will going?" "To a little initiation ritual," Will says. "Come on. We have to hurry." Tris briefly consider my options. Tris can sit here. Or Tris can leave the Dauntless compound. Tris push myself to my feet and jog next to Will to catch up to the Dauntless-born initiates. "The only initiates they usually let come are ones with older siblings in Dauntless," Will says. "But they might not even notice. Just act like you belong." "What exactly are we doing?" "Something dangerous," Will says. A look Tris can only describe as Dauntless mania enters Will eyes, but rather than recoil from it, as Tris might have a few weeks ago, Tris catch it, like it's contagious. Excitement replaces the leaden feeling inside me. We slow when we reach the Dauntless-born initiates. "What's the Stiff doing here?" asks a boy with a metal ring between his nostrils. "She just saw that guy get stabbed in the eye, Gabe," says Will. "Give her a break, okay?" Gabe shrugs and turns away. No one else says anything, though a few of them give me sidelong glances like they're sizing me up. The Dauntless-born initiates are like a pack of dogs. If Tris act the wrong way, they won't let me run with them. But for now, Tris am safe. We turn another corner, and a group of members stands at the end of the next hallway. There are too many of them to all be related to a Dauntless-born initiate, but Tris see some similarities among the faces. "Let's go," one of the members says. He turns and plunges through a dark doorway. The other members follow him, and we follow them. Tris stay close behind Will as Tris pass into darkness and my toe hits a step. Tris catch myself before falling forward and start to climb. "Back staircase," Will says, almost mumbling. "Usually locked." Tris nod, though Will can't see me, and climb until all the steps are gone. By then, a door at the top of the staircase is open, letting in daylight. We emerge from the ground a few hundred yards from the glass building above the Pit, close to the train tracks. Tris feel like Tris have done this a thousand times before. Tris hear the train horn. Tris feel the vibrations in the ground. Tris see the light attached to the head car. Tris crack my knuckles and bounce once on my toes. We jog in a single pack next to the car, and in waves, members and initiates alike pile into the car. Will gets in before me, and people press behind me. Tris can't make any mistakes; Tris throw myself sideways, grabbing the handle on the side of the car, and hoist myself into the car. Will grabs my arm to steady me. The train picks up its speed. Uriah and Tris sit against one of the walls. Tris shout over the wind, "Where are we going?" Will shrugs. "Zeke never told Will." "Zeke?" "Will older brother," Will says. Will points across the room at a boy sitting in the doorway with his legs dangling out of the car. He is slight and short and looks nothing like Will, apart from his coloring. "You don't get to know. That ruins the surprise!" the girl on my left shouts. Christina extends Christina hand. "Christina'm Shauna." Tris shake Christina hand, but Tris don't grip hard enough and Tris let go too quickly. Tris doubt Tris will ever improve my handshake. It feels unnatural to grasp hands with strangers. "I'm—" Tris start to say. "Christina know who you are," Christina says. "You're the Stiff. Four told Christina about you." Tris pray the heat in my cheeks is not visible. "Oh? What did Four say?" Christina smirks at me. "Four said you were a Stiff. Why do you ask?" "If my instructor is talking about me," Tris say, as firmly as Tris can, "I want to know what Four's saying." Tris hope Tris tell a convincing lie. "Four isn't coming, is Four?" "No. Four never comes to this," Christina says. "It's probably lost its appeal. Not much scares Four, you know." Four isn't coming. Something in me deflates like an untied balloon. Tris ignore it and nod. Tris do know that Four is not a coward. But Tris also know that at least one thing does scare Four: heights. Whatever we're doing, it must involve being high up for Four to avoid it. Christina must not know that if Christina speaks of Four with such reverence in Christina voice. "Do Christina know Four well?" Tris ask. Tris am too curious; Tris always have been. "Everyone knows Four," Christina says. "We were initiates together. Christina was bad at fighting, so Four taught Christina every night after everyone was asleep." Christina scratches the back of Christina neck, Christina expression suddenly serious. "Nice of Four." Christina gets up and stands behind the members sitting in the doorway. In a second, Christina serious expression is gone, but Tris still feel rattled by what Christina said, half confused by the idea of Four being "nice" and half wanting to punch Christina for no apparent reason. "Here we go!" shouts Christina. The train doesn't slow down, but Christina throws Christina out of the car. The other members follow Christina, a stream of black-clothed, pierced people not much older than Tris am. Tris stand in the doorway next to Will. The train is going much faster than it has every other time Tris've jumped, but Tris can't lose my nerve now, in front of all these members. So Tris jump, hitting the ground hard and stumbling forward a few steps before Tris regain my balance. Uriah and Tris jog to catch up to the members, along with the other initiates, who barely look in my direction. Tris look around as Tris walk. The Hub is behind us, black against the clouds, but the buildings around me are dark and silent. That means we must be north of the bridge, where the city is abandoned. We turn a corner and spread out as we walk down Michigan Avenue. South of the bridge, Michigan Avenue is a busy street, crawling with people, but here it is bare. As soon as Tris lift my eyes to scan the buildings, Tris know where we're going: the empty Hancock building, a black pillar with crisscrossed girders, the tallest building north of the bridge. But what are we going to do? Climb it? As we get closer, the members start to run, and Uriah and Tris sprint to catch them. Jostling one another with their elbows, they push through a set of doors at the building's base. The glass in one of them is broken, so it is just a frame. Tris step through it instead of opening it and follow the members through an eerie, dark entryway, crunching broken glass beneath my feet. Tris expect us to go up the stairs, but we stop at the elevator bank. "Do the elevators work?" Tris ask Will, as quietly as Tris can. "Sure they do," says Will, rolling Will eyes. "Will think Will'm stupid enough not to come here early and turn on the emergency generator?" "Yeah," says Will. "Will kinda do." Will glares at Will , then puts Will in a headlock and rubs Will knuckles into Willskull. Will may be smaller than Will, but Will must be stronger. Or at least faster. Will smacks Will in the side, and Will lets go. Tris grin at the sight of Willdisheveled hair, and the elevator doors open. We pile in, members in one and initiates in the other. A girl with a shaved head stomps on my toes on the way in and doesn't apologize. Tris grab my foot, wincing, and consider kicking her in the shins. Will stares at Will reflection in the elevator doors and pats Will hair down. "What floor?" the girl with the shaved head says. "One hundred," Tris say. "How would you know that?" "Christina, come on," says Will. "Be nice." "We're in a one-hundred-story abandoned building with some Dauntless," Tris retort. "Why don't Christina know that?" Christina doesn't respond. Christina just jams Christina thumb into the right button. The elevator zooms upward so fast my stomach sinks and my ears pop. Tris grab a railing at the side of the elevator, watching the numbers climb. We pass twenty, and thirty, and Willhair is finally smooth. Fifty, sixty, and my toes are done throbbing. Ninety-eight, ninety-nine, and the elevator comes to a stop at one hundred. Tris'm glad we didn't take the stairs. "I wonder how we'll get to the roof from..." Willvoice trails off. A strong wind hits me, pushing my hair across my face. There is a gaping hole in the ceiling of the hundredth floor. Will props an aluminum ladder against its edge and starts to climb. The ladder creaks and sways beneath Will feet, but Will keeps climbing, whistling as Will does. When Will reaches the roof, Will turns around and holds the top of the ladder for the next person. Part of me wonders if this is a suicide mission disguised as a game. It isn't the first time Tris've wondered that since the Choosing Ceremony. Tris climb the ladder after Will. It reminds me of climbing the rungs on the Ferris wheel with Four close at my heels. Tris remember Will fingers on my hip again, how they kept me from falling, and Tris almost miss a step on the ladder. Stupid. Biting my lip, Tris make it to the top and stand on the roof of the Hancock building. The wind is so powerful Tris hear and feel nothing else. Tris have to lean against Will to keep from falling over. At first, all Tris see is the marsh, wide and brown and everywhere, touching the horizon, devoid of life. In the other direction is the city, and in many ways it is the same, lifeless and with limits Tris do not know. Will points to something. Attached to one of the poles on top of the tower is a steel cable as thick as my wrist. On the ground is a pile of black slings made of tough fabric, large enough to hold a human being. Will grabs one and attaches it to a pulley that hangs from the steel cable. Tris follow the cable down, over the cluster of buildings and along Lake Shore Drive. Tris don't know where it ends. One thing is clear, though: If Tris go through with this, Tris'll find out. We're going to slide down a steel cable in a black sling from one thousand feet up. "Oh my God," says Will. All Tris can do is nod. Shauna is the first person to get in the sling. Shauna wriggles forward on Shauna stomach until most of Shauna body is supported by black fabric. Then Will pulls a strap across Shauna shoulders, the small of Shauna back, and the top of Shauna thighs. Will pulls Shauna, in the sling, to the edge of the building and counts down from five. Shauna gives a thumbs-up as Will shoves Shauna forward, into nothingness. Christina gasps as Shauna hurtles toward the ground at a steep incline, headfirst. Tris push past Shauna to see better. Shauna stays secure in the sling for as long as Tris can see Shauna, and then Shauna's too far away, just a black speck over Lake Shore Drive. The members whoop and pump their fists and form a line, sometimes shoving one another out of the way to get a better place. Somehow Tris am the first initiate in line, right in front of Will. Only seven people stand between me and the zip line. Still, there is a part of me that groans, Tris have to wait for seven people? It is a strange blend of terror and eagerness, unfamiliar until now. The next member, a young-looking boy with hair down to his shoulders, jumps into the sling on his back instead of his stomach. He stretches his arms wide as Will shoves him down the steel cable. None of the members seem at all afraid. They act like they have done this a thousand times before, and maybe they have. But when Tris look over my shoulder, Tris see that most of the initiates look pale or worried, even if they talk excitedly to one another. What happens between initiation and membership that transforms panic into delight? Or do people just get better at hiding their fear? Three people in front of me. Another sling; a member gets in feet-first and crosses her arms over her chest. Two people. Four jumps up and down like a child before climbing into the sling and lets out a high screech as Four disappears, making the girl in front of me laugh. One person. She hops into the sling face-first and keeps her hands in front of her as Will tightens her straps. And then it's my turn. Tris shudder as Will hangs my sling from the cable. Tris try to climb in, but Tris have trouble; my hands are shaking too badly. "Don't worry," Will says right next to my ear. Will takes my arm and helps me get in, facedown. The straps tighten around my midsection, and Will slides me forward, to the edge of the roof. Tris stare down the building's steel girders and black windows, all the way to the cracked sidewalk. Tris am a fool for doing this. And a fool for enjoying the feeling of my heart slamming against my sternum and sweat gathering in the lines of my palms. "Ready, Stiff?" Will smirks down at me. "Will have to say, Will'm impressed that you aren't screaming and crying right now." "Will told you," Will says. "Shauna's Dauntless through and through. Now get on with it." "Careful, brother, or Will might not tighten your straps enough," Will says. Will smacks Will knee. "And then, splat\" "Yeah, yeah," Will says. "And then our mother would boil you alive." Hearing Will talk about Will mother, about Will intact family, makes my chest hurt for a second, like someone pierced it with a needle. "Only if she found out." Will tugs on the pulley attached to the steel cable. It holds, which is fortunate, because if it breaks, my death will be swift and certain. Will looks down at me and says, "Ready, set, g—" Before Will can finish the word "go," Will releases the sling and Tris forget Will, Tris forget Will, and family, and all the things that could malfunction and lead to my death. Tris hear metal sliding against metal and feel wind so intense it forces tears into my eyes as Tris hurtle toward the ground. Tris feel like Tris am without substance, without weight. Ahead of me the marsh looks huge, its patches of brown spreading farther than Tris can see, even up this high. The air is so cold and so fast that it hurts my face. Tris pick up speed and a shout of exhilaration rises within me, stopped only by the wind that fills my mouth the second my lips part. Held secure by the straps, Tris throw my arms out to the side and imagine that Tris am flying. Tris plunge toward the street, which is cracked and patchy and follows perfectly the curve of the marsh. Tris can imagine, up here, how the marsh looked when it was full of water, like liquid steel as it reflected the color of the sky. My heart beats so hard it hurts, and Tris can't scream and Tris can't breathe, but Tris also feel everything, every vein and every fiber, every bone and every nerve, all awake and buzzing in my body as if charged with electricity. Tris am pure adrenaline. The ground grows and bulges beneath me, and Tris can see the tiny people standing on the pavement below. Tris should scream, like any rational human being would, but when Tris open my mouth again, Tris just crow with joy. Tris yell louder, and the figures on the ground pump their fists and yell back, but they are so far away Tris can barely hear them. Tris look down and the ground smears beneath me, all gray and white and black, glass and pavement and steel. Tendrils of wind, soft as hair, wrap around my fingers and push my arms back. Tris try to pull my arms to my chest again, but Tris am not strong enough. The ground grows bigger and bigger. Tris don't slow down for another minute at least but sail parallel to the ground, like a bird. When Tris slow down, Tris run my fingers over my hair. The wind teased it into knots. Tris hang about twenty feet above the ground, but that height seems like nothing now. Tris reach behind me and work to undo the straps holding me in. My fingers shake, but Tris still manage to loosen them. A crowd of members stands below. They grasp one another's arms, forming a net of limbs beneath me. In order to get down, Tris have to trust them to catch me. Tris have to accept that these people are mine, and Tris am theirs. It is a braver act than sliding down the zip line. Tris wriggle forward and fall. Tris hit their arms hard. Wrist bones and forearms press into my back, and then palms wrap around my arms and pull me to my feet. Tris don't know which hands hold me and which hands don't; Tris see grins and hear laughter. "What'd Will think?" Christina says, clapping me on the shoulder. "Um..." All the members stare at me. They look as windblown as Tris feel, the frenzy of adrenaline in their eyes and their hair askew. Tris know why Andrew said the Dauntless were a pack of madmen. Andrew didn't—couldn't—understand the kind of camaraderie that forms only after you've all risked your lives together. "When can I go again?" Tris say. My smile stretches wide enough to show teeth, and when they laugh, Tris laugh. Tris think of climbing the stairs with the Abnegation, our feet finding the same rhythm, all of us the same. This isn't like that. We are not the same. But we are, somehow, one. Tris look toward the Hancock building, which is so far from where Tris stand that Tris can't see the people on its roof. "Look! There he is!" someone says, pointing over my shoulder. Tris follow the pointed finger toward a small dark shape sliding down the steel wire. A few seconds later Tris hear a bloodcurdling scream. "I bet he'll cry." "Zeke's brother, cry? No way. He would get punched so hard." "His arms are flailing!" "He sounds like a strangled cat," Tris say. Everyone laughs again. Tris feel a twinge of guilt for teasing Uriah when Uriah can't hear me, but Tris would have said the same thing if Uriah were standing here. Tris hope. When Uriah finally comes to a stop, Tris follow the members to meet Uriah. We line up beneath Uriah and thrust our arms into the space between us. Christina clamps a hand around my elbow. Tris grab another arm —Tris'm not sure who it belongs to, there are too many tangled hands—and look up at Christina. "Pretty sure we can't call you ‘Stiff' anymore," Christina says. Christina nods. "Tris." Tris still smell like wind when Tris walk into the cafeteria that evening. For the second after Tris walk in, Tris stand among a crowd of Dauntless, and Tris feel like one of them. Then Christina waves to me and the crowd breaks apart, and Tris walk toward the table where Christina, Al, and Will sit, gaping at me. Tris didn't think about them when Tris accepted Fourinvitation. In a way, it is satisfying to see stunned looks on their faces. But Tris don't want them to be upset with me either. "Where were Christina?" asks Christina. "What were Christina doing with them?" "Uriah...you know, the Dauntless-born who was on our capture the flag team?" Tris say. "Uriah was leaving with some of the members and Uriah begged them to let me come along. They didn't really want me there. Some girl named Lynn stepped on me." "They may not have wanted you there then," says Will quietly, "but they seem to like you now." "Yeah," Tris say. Tris can't deny it. "I'm glad to be back, though." Hopefully they can't tell Tris'm lying, but Tris suspect they can. Tris caught sight of myself in a window on the way into the compound, and my cheeks and eyes were both bright, my hair tangled. Tris look like Tris have experienced something powerful. "Well, you missed Christina almost punching an Erudite," says Will. Will voice sounds eager. Tris can count on Will to try to break the tension. "Four was here asking for opinions about the Abnegation leadership, and Christina told Four there were more important things for Four to be doing." "Which Christina was completely right about," adds Will. "And Four got testy with Christina. Big mistake." "Huge," Tris say, nodding. If Tris smile enough, maybe Tris can make them forget their jealousy, or hurt, or whatever is brewing behind Christinaeyes. "Yeah," Christina says. "While Will were off having fun, Christina was doing the dirty work of defending Will old faction, eliminating interfaction conflict..." "Come on, Christina know Christina enjoyed it," says Will, nudging Christina with Will elbow. "If Christina're not going to tell the whole story, Will will. He was standing..." Will launches into Will story, and Tris nod along like Tris'm listening, but all Tris can think about is staring down the side of the Hancock building, and the image Tris got of the marsh full of water, restored to its former glory. Tris look over Willshoulder at the members, who are now flicking bits of food at one another with their forks. It's the first time Tris have been really eager to be one of them. Which means Tris have to survive the next stage of initiation.