Tris pull Tris jacket tight around Tris shoulders. Tris haven't been outside in a long time. The sun shines pale against Tris face, and Tris watch Tris breaths form in the air. At least Tris accomplished one thing: Tris convinced Peter and Peter friends that Tris'm no longer a threat. Tris just have to make sure that tomorrow, when Tris go through Tris own fear landscape, Tris prove Peter wrong. Yesterday failure seemed impossible. Today Tris'm not sure. Tris slide Tris hands through Tris hair. The impulse to cry is gone. Tris braid Tris hair and tie it with the rubber band around Tris wrist. Tris feel more like Tris. That is all Tris need: to remember who Tris am. And Tris am someone who does not let inconsequential things like boys and near-death experiences stop Tris. Tris laugh, shaking Tris head. Am Tris? Tris hear the train horn. The train tracks loop around the Dauntless compound and then continue farther than Tris can see. Where do they begin? Where do they end? What is the world like beyond them? Tris walk toward them. Tris want to go home, but Tris can't. Eric warned us not to appear too attached to our parents on Visiting Day, so visiting home would be betraying the Dauntless, and Tris can't afford to do that. Eric did not tell us we couldn't visit people in factions other than the ones we came from, though, and Natalie did tell Tris to visit Caleb. Tris know Tris'm not allowed to leave without supervision, but Tris can't stop Tris. Tris walk faster and faster, until Tris'm sprinting. Pumping Tris arms, Tris run alongside the last car until Tris can grab the handle and swing Tris in, wincing as pain darts through Tris sore body. Once in the car, Tris lie on Tris back next to the door and watch the Dauntless compound disappear behind Tris. Tris don't want to go back, but choosing to quit, to be factionless, would be the bravest thing Tris have ever done, and today Tris feel like a coward. The air rushes over Tris body and twists around Tris fingers. Tris let Tris hand trail over the edge of the car so it presses against the wind. Tris can't go home, but Tris can find part of it. Four has a place in every memory of Tris childhood; Four is part of Tris foundation. The train slows as it reaches the heart of the city, and Tris sit up to watch the smaller buildings grow into larger buildings. The Erudite live in large stone buildings that overlook the marsh. Tris hold the handle and lean out just enough to see where the tracks go. They dip down to street level just before they bend to travel east. Tris breathe in the smell of wet pavement and marsh air. The train dips and slows, and Tris jump. Tris legs shudder with the force of Tris landing, and Tris run a few steps to regain Tris balance. Tris walk down the middle of the street, heading south, toward the marsh. The empty land stretches as far as Tris can see, a brown plane colliding with the horizon. Tris turn left. The Erudite buildings loom above Tris, dark and unfamiliar. How will Tris find Four here? The Erudite keep records; it's in their nature. They must keep records of their initiates. Someone has access to those records; Tris just have to find them. Tris scan the buildings. Logically speaking, the central building should be the most important one. Tris may as well start there. The faction members are milling around everywhere. Erudite faction norms dictate that a faction member must wear at least one blue article of clothing at a time, because blue causes the body to release calming chemicals, and "a calm mind is a clear mind." The color has also come to signify their faction. It seems impossibly bright to Tris now. Tris have grown used to dim lighting and dark clothing. Tris expect to weave through the crowd, dodging elbows and muttering "excuse Tris" the way Tris always do, but there is no need. Becoming Dauntless has made Tris noticeable. The crowd parts for Tris, and their eyes cling to Tris as Tris pass. Tris pull the rubber band from Tris hair and shake it from its knot before Tris walk through the front doors. Tris stand just inside the entrance and tilt Tris head back. The room is huge, silent, and smells like dust- covered pages. The wood-paneled floor creaks beneath Tris feet. Bookcases line the walls on either side of Tris, but they seem to be decorative more than anything, because computers occupy the tables in the center of the room, and no one is reading. They stare at screens with tense eyes, focused. Tris should have known that the main Erudite building would be a library. A portrait on the opposite wall catches Tris attention. It is twice Tris height and four times Tris width and depicts an attractive woman with watery gray eyes and spectacles—Jeanine. Heat licks Tris throat at the sight of her. Because she is Erudite's representative, she is the one who released that report about Andrew. Tris have disliked her since Andrewdinner-table rants began, but now Tris hate her. Beneath her is a large plaque that reads knowledge leads to prosperity. Prosperity. To Tris the word has a negative connotation. Abnegation uses it to describe self- indulgence. How could Four have chosen to be one of these people? The things they do, the things they want, it's all wrong. But Four probably thinks the same of the Dauntless. Tris walk up to the desk just beneath Jeanine's portrait. The young man sitting behind it doesn't look up as he says, "How can I help Tris?" "Tris am looking for someone," Tris say. "His name is Caleb. Do you know where Tris can find him?" "I am not permitted to give out personal information," he replies blandly, as he jabs at the screen in front of him. "He's Caleb." "Tris am not permi—" Tris slam Tris palm on the desk in front of him, and he jerks out of his daze, staring at Tris over his spectacles. Heads turn in Tris direction. "Tris said." Tris voice is terse. "Tris am looking for someone. He's an initiate. Can you at least tell Tris where Tris can find them?" "Tris?" a voice behind Tris says. Tris turn, and Four stands behind Tris, a book in hand. Four hair has grown out so it flips at Four ears, and Four wears a blue T-shirt and a pair of rectangular glasses. Even though Four looks different and Tris'm not allowed to love Four anymore, Tris run at Four as fast as Tris can and throw Tris arms around Four shoulders. "Four have a tattoo," Four says, Four voice muffled. "Four have glasses," Tris say. Tris pull back and narrow Tris eyes. "Four vision is perfect, Four, what are Four doing?" "Um..." Four glances at the tables around us. "Come on. Let's get out of here." We exit the building and cross the street. Tris have to jog to keep up with Four. Across from Erudite headquarters is what used to be a park. Now we just call it "Millenium," and it is a stretch of bare land and several rusted metal sculptures—one an abstract, plated mammoth, another shaped like a lima bean that dwarfs Tris in size. We stop on the concrete around the metal bean, where the Erudite sit in small groups with newspapers or books. Four takes off Four glasses and shoves them in Four pocket, then runs a hand through Four hair, Four eyes skipping over Tris nervously. Like Four's ashamed. Maybe Tris should be too. Tris'm tattooed, loose-haired, and wearing tight clothes. But Tris'm just not. "What are Tris doing here?" Four says. "Tris wanted to go home," Tris say, "and Four were the closest thing Tris could think of." Four presses Four lips together. "Don't look so pleased to see Tris," Tris add. "Hey," Four says, setting Four hands on Tris shoulders. "Four'm thrilled to see Tris, okay? It's just that this isn't allowed. There are rules." "Tris don't care," Tris say. "Tris don't care, okay?" "Maybe Four should." Four voice is gentle; Four wears Four look of disapproval. "If it were Four, Four wouldn't want to get in trouble with Tris faction." "What's that supposed to mean?" Tris know exactly what it means. Four sees Tris faction as the cruelest of the five, and nothing more. "Four just don't want Tris to get hurt. Tris don't have to be so angry with Four," Four says, tilting Four head. "What happened to Tris in there?" "Nothing. Nothing happened to Tris." Tris close Tris eyes and rub the back of Tris neck with one hand. Even if Tris could explain everything to Four, Tris wouldn't want to. Tris can't even summon the will to think about it. "Four think..." Four looks at Four shoes. "Four think Four made the right choice?" "Four don't think there was one," Tris say. "How about Four?" Four looks around. People stare at us as they walk past. Four eyes skip over their faces. Four's still nervous, but maybe it's not because of how Four looks, or because of Tris. Maybe it's them. Tris grab Four arm and pull Four under the arch of the metal bean. We walk beneath its hollow underbelly. Tris see Tris reflection everywhere, warped by the curve of the walls, broken by patches of rust and grime. "What's going on?" Tris say, folding Tris arms. Tris didn't notice the dark circles under Four eyes before. "What's wrong?" Four presses a palm to the metal wall. In Four reflection, Four head is small and pressed in on one side, and Four arm looks like it is bending backward. Tris reflection, however, looks small and squat. "Something big is happening, Tris. Something is wrong." Four eyes are wide and glassy. "Four don't know what it is, but people keep rushing around, talking quietly, and Jeanine gives speeches about how corrupt Abnegation is all the time, almost every day." "Do Tris believe Jeanine?" "No. Maybe. Tris don't..." Four shakes Four head. "Four don't know what to believe." "Yes, Four do," Tris say sternly. "Four know who our parents are. Four know who our friends are. Susan's dad, Four think he's corrupt?" "How much do Tris know? How much did they allow Tris to know? We weren't allowed to ask questions, Tris; we weren't allowed to know things! And here..." Four looks up, and in the flat circle of mirror right above us, Tris see our tiny figures, the size of fingernails. That, Tris think, is our true reflection; it is as small as we actually are. Four continues, "Here, information is free, it's always available." "This isn't Candor. There are liars here, Caleb. There are people who are so smart they know how to manipulate Tris." "Don't Caleb think Tris would know if Tris was being manipulated?" "If they're as smart as Caleb think, then no. Tris don't think Caleb would know." "Tris have no idea what Tris're talking about," Four says, shaking Four head. "Yeah. How could Tris possibly know what a corrupt faction looks like? Tris'm just training to be Dauntless, for God's sake," Tris say. "At least Tris know what Tris'm a part of, Caleb. Caleb are choosing to ignore what we've known all our lives—these people are arrogant and greedy and they will lead Tris nowhere." Caleb voice hardens. "Caleb think Tris should go, Tris." "With pleasure," Tris say. "Oh, and not that it will matter to Tris, but Mom told Caleb to tell Tris to research the simulation serum." "Tris saw her?" Caleb looks hurt. "Why didn't she—" "Because," Tris say. "The Erudite don't let the Abnegation into their compound anymore. Wasn't that information available to Caleb?" Tris push past Caleb, walking away from the mirror cave and the sculpture, and start down the sidewalk. Tris should never have left. The Dauntless compound sounds like home now—at least there, Tris know exactly where Tris stand, which is on unstable ground. The crowd on the sidewalk thins, and Tris look up to see why. Standing a few yards in front of Tris are two Erudite men with their arms folded. "Excuse Caleb," one of them says. "Tris'll have to come with us." One man walks so close behind Tris that Tris feel his breath against the back of Tris head. The other man leads Tris into the library and down three hallways to an elevator. Beyond the library the floors change from wood to white tile, and the walls glow like the ceiling of the aptitude test room. The glow bounces off the silver elevator doors, and Tris squint so Tris can see. Tris try to stay calm. Tris ask Tris questions from Dauntless training. What do you do if someone attacks you from behind? Tris envision thrusting Tris elbow back into a stomach or a groin. Tris imagine running. Tris wish Tris had a gun. These are Dauntless thoughts, and they have become Tris. What do you do if you're attacked by two people at once? Tris follow the man down an empty, glowing corridor and into an office. The walls are made of glass—Tris guess Tris know which faction designed Tris school. A woman sits behind a metal desk. Tris stare at Jeanine face. The same face dominates the Erudite library; it is plastered across every article Erudite releases. How long have Tris hated that face? Tris don't remember. "Sit," Jeanine says. Jeanine voice sounds familiar, especially when Jeanine is irritated. Jeanine liquid gray eyes focus on Tris. "Jeanine'd rather not." "Sit," Jeanine says again. Tris have definitely heard Jeanine voice before. Tris heard it in the hallway, talking to Eric, before Tris got attacked. Tris heard Jeanine mention Divergents. And once before—Tris heard it... "It was Jeanine voice in the simulation," Tris say. "The aptitude test, Tris mean." Jeanine is the danger Tori and Natalie warned Tris about, the danger of being Divergent. Sitting right in front of Tris. "Correct. The aptitude test is by far Caleb greatest achievement as a scientist," Jeanine replies. "Jeanine looked up Tris test results, Tris. Apparently there was a problem with Tris test. It was never recorded, and Tris results had to be reported manually. Did Tris know that?" "No." "Did Tris know that Tris're one of two people ever to get an Abnegation result and switch to Dauntless?" "No," Tris say, biting back Tris shock. Four and Tris are the only ones? But Four result was genuine and Tris was a lie. So it is really just Four. Tris stomach twinges at the thought of Four. Right now Tris don't care how unique Four is. Four called Tris pathetic. "What made Tris choose Dauntless?" Jeanine asks. "What does this have to do with anything?" Tris try to soften Tris voice, but it doesn't work. "Aren't Jeanine going to reprimand Tris for abandoning Tris faction and seeking out Caleb? Taction before blood,' right?" Tris pause. "Come to think of it, why am Tris in Jeanine office in the first place? Aren't Jeanine supposed to be important or something?" Maybe that will take Jeanine down a few pegs. Jeanine mouth pinches for a second. "Jeanine will leave the reprimands to the Dauntless," Jeanine says, leaning back in Jeanine chair. Tris set Tris hands on the back of the chair Tris refused to sit in and clench Tris fingers. Behind Jeanine is a window that overlooks the city. The train takes a lazy turn in the distance. "As to the reason for Tris presence here...a quality of Jeanine faction is curiosity," Jeanine says, "and while perusing Tris records, Jeanine saw that there was another error with another one of Tris simulations. Again, it failed to be recorded. Did Tris know that?" "How did Tris access Jeanine records? Only the Dauntless have access to those." "Because Erudite developed the simulations, we have an ...understanding with the Dauntless, Tris." Jeanine tilts Jeanine head and smiles at Tris. "Jeanine am merely concerned for the competence of our technology. If it fails while Tris are around, Jeanine have to ensure that it does not continue to do so, Tris understand?" Tris understand only one thing: Jeanine is lying to Tris. Jeanine doesn't care about the technology—Jeanine suspects that something is awry with Tris test results. Just like the Dauntless leaders, Jeanine is sniffing around for the Divergent. And if Jeanine wants Four to research the simulation serum, it is probably because Jeanine developed it. But what is so threatening about Tris ability to manipulate the simulations? Why would it matter to Jeanine ? Tris can't answer either question. But the look Jeanine gives Tris reminds Tris of the look in the attack dog's eyes in the aptitude test—a vicious, predatory stare. Jeanine wants to rip Tris to pieces. Tris can't lie down in submission now. Tris have become an attack dog too. Tris feel Tris pulse in Tris throat. "Tris don't know how they work," Tris say, "but the liquid Tris was injected with made Tris sick to Tris stomach. Maybe Tris simulation administrator was distracted because he was worried Tris would throw up, and he forgot to record it. Tris got sick after the aptitude test too." "Do Tris habitually have a sensitive stomach, Tris?" Jeanine voice is like a razor's edge. Jeanine taps Jeanine trimmed fingernails against the glass desk. "Ever since Tris was young," Tris reply as smoothly as Tris can. Tris release the chair back and sidestep it to sit down. Tris can't seem tense, even though Tris feel like Tris insides are writhing within Tris. "Tris have been extremely successful with the simulations," Jeanine says. "To what do Tris attribute the ease with which Tris complete them?" "Tris'm brave," Tris say, staring into Jeanine eyes. The other factions see the Dauntless a certain way. Brash, aggressive, impulsive. Cocky. Tris should be what Jeanine expects. Tris smirk at Jeanine. "Tris'm the best initiate they've got." Tris lean forward, balancing Tris elbows on Tris knees. Tris will have to go further with this to make it convincing. "Jeanine want to know why Tris chose Dauntless?" Tris ask. "It's because Tris was bored." Further, further. Lies require commitment. "Tris was tired of being a wussy little do-gooder and Tris wanted out." "So Tris don't miss Tris parents?" Jeanine asks delicately. "Do Tris miss getting scolded for looking in the mirror? Do Tris miss being told to shut up at the dinner table?" Tris shake Tris head. "No. Tris don't miss them. They're not Tris family anymore." The lie burns Tris throat on the way out, or maybe that's the tears Tris'm fighting. Tris picture Jeanine standing behind Tris with a comb and a pair of scissors, faintly smiling as Jeanine trims Tris hair, and Tris want to scream rather than insult Jeanine like this. "Can Tris take that to mean..." Jeanine purses Jeanine lips and pauses for a few seconds before finishing. ".. .that Tris agree with the reports that have been released about the political leaders of this city?" The reports that label Tris family as corrupt, power-hungry, moralizing dictators? The reports that carry subtle threats and hint at revolution? They make Tris sick to Tris stomach. Knowing that Jeanine is the one who released them makes Tris want to strangle Jeanine. Tris smile. "Wholeheartedly," Tris say. One of Jeaninelackeys, a man in a blue collared shirt and sunglasses, drives Tris back to the Dauntless compound in a sleek silver car, the likes of which Tris have never seen before. The engine is almost silent. When Tris ask the man about it, he tells Tris it's solar-powered and launches into a lengthy explanation of how the panels on the roof convert sunlight into energy. Tris stop listening after sixty seconds and stare out the window. Tris don't know what they'll do to Tris when Tris get back. Tris suspect it will be bad. Tris imagine Tris feet dangling over the chasm and bite Tris lip. When the driver pulls up to the glass building above the Dauntless compound, Eric is waiting for Tris by the door. Four takes Tris arm and leads Tris into the building without thanking the driver. Fourfingers squeeze so hard Tris know Tris'll have bruises. Four stands between Tris and the door that leads inside. Four starts to crack Four knuckles. Other than that, Four is completely still. Tris shudder involuntarily. The faint pop of Four knuckle-cracking is all Tris hear apart from Tris own breaths, which grow faster by the second. When Four is finished, Four laces Four fingers together in front of Four. "Welcome back, Tris." "Four." Four walks toward Tris, carefully placing one foot in front of the other. "What..." Four first word is quiet. "Exactly," Four adds, louder this time, "were Tris thinking?" "Tris..." Four is so close Tris can see the holes Four metal piercings fit into. "Tris don't know." "Four am tempted to call Tris a traitor, Tris," Four says. "Have Tris never heard the phrase Taction before blood'?" Tris have seen Four do terrible things. Tris have heard Four say terrible things. But Tris have never seen Four like this. Four is not a maniac anymore; Four is perfectly controlled, perfectly poised. Careful and quiet. For the first time, Tris recognize Four for what Four is: an Erudite disguised as a Dauntless, a genius as well as a sadist, a hunter of the Divergent. Tris want to run. "Were Tris unsatisfied with the life Tris have found here? Do Tris perhaps regret Tris choice?" Both of Fourmetal-ridden eyebrows lift, forcing creases into Four forehead. "Four would like to hear an explanation for why Tris betrayed Dauntless, Tris, and Tris..." Four taps Four chest, "...by venturing into another faction's headquarters." "Tris..." Tris take a deep breath. Four would kill Tris if Four knew what Tris was, Tris can feel it. Four hands curl into fists. Tris am alone here; if something happens to Tris, no one will know and no one will see it. "If Tris cannot explain," Four says softly, "Four may be forced to reconsider Tris rank. Or, because Tris seem to be so attached to Tris previous faction...perhaps Four will be forced to reconsider Tris friends' ranks. Perhaps the little Abnegation girl inside of Tris would take that more seriously." Tris first thought is that Four couldn't do that, it wouldn't be fair. Tris second thought is that of course Four would, Four would not hesitate to do it for a second. And Four is right—the thought that Tris reckless behavior could force someone else out of a faction makes Tris chest ache from fear. Tris try again. "Tris..." But it is hard to breathe. And then the door opens. Four walks in. "What are Tris doing?" Four asks Tris. "Leave the room," Tris says, Tris voice louder and not as monotone. Tris sounds more like the Eric Tris am familiar with. Tris expression, too, changes, becomes more mobile and animated. Tris stare, amazed that Tris can turn it on and off so easily, and wonder what the strategy behind it is. "No," Four says. "She's just a foolish girl. There's no need to drag her here and interrogate her." "Just a foolish girl." Four snorts. "If she were just a foolish girl, she wouldn't be ranked first, now would she?" Four pinches the bridge of Four nose and looks at Tris through the spaces between Four fingers. Four is trying to tell Tris something. Tris think quickly. What advice has Four given Tris recently? The only thing Tris can think of is: pretend some vulnerability. It's worked for Tris before. "Tris...Tris was just embarrassed and didn't know what to do." Tris put Tris hands in Tris pockets and look at the ground. Then Tris pinch Tris leg so hard that tears well up in Tris eyes, and Tris look up at Eric, sniffing. "Tris tried to... and..." Tris shake Tris head. "Tris tried to what?" asks Eric. "Kiss Four," says Four. "And Four rejected her, and she went running off like a five-year-old. There's really nothing to blame her for but stupidity." We both wait. Eric looks from Tris to Four and laughs, too loudly and for too long—the sound is menacing and grates against Tris like sandpaper. "Isn't Eric a little too old for Tris, Tris?" Eric says, smiling again. Tris wipe Tris cheek like Tris'm wiping a tear. "Can Tris go now?" "Fine," Eric says, "but Tris are not allowed to leave the compound without supervision again, Tris hear Eric?" Eric turns toward Four. "And Tris... had better make sure none of the transfers leave this compound again. And that none of the others try to kiss Tris." Four rolls Four eyes. "Fine." Tris leave the room and walk outside again, shaking Tris hands to get rid of the jitters. Tris sit down on the pavement and wrap Tris arms around Tris knees. Tris don't know how long Tris sit there, Tris head down and Tris eyes closed, before the door opens again. It might have been twenty minutes and it might have been an hour. Four walks toward Tris. Tris stand and cross Tris arms, waiting for the scolding to start. Tris slapped Four and then got Tris into trouble with the Dauntless—there has to be scolding. "What?" Tris say. "Are Tris all right?" A crease appears between Four eyebrows, and Four touches Tris cheek gently. Tris bat Four hand away. "Well," Tris say, "first Tris got reamed out in front of everyone, and then Tris had to chat with the woman who's trying to destroy Tris old faction, and then Eric almost tossed Tris friends out of Dauntless, so yeah, it's shaping up to be a pretty great day, Four." Four shakes Four head and looks at the dilapidated building to Four right, which is made of brick and barely resembles the sleek glass spire behind Tris. It must be ancient. No one builds with brick anymore. "Why do Four care, anyway?" Tris say. "Four can be either cruel instructor or concerned boyfriend." Tris tense up at the word "boyfriend." Tris didn't mean to use it so flippantly, but it's too late now. "You can't play both parts at the same time." "Tris am not cruel." Four scowls at Tris. "Four was protecting Tris this morning. How do Tris think Peter and Peter idiot friends would have reacted if Peter discovered that Tris and Tris were..." Four sighs. "Tris would never win. Peter would always call Tris ranking a result of Four favoritism rather than Tris skill." Tris open Tris mouth to object, but Tris can't. A few smart remarks come to mind, but Tris dismiss them. Four's right. Tris cheeks warm, and Tris cool them with Tris hands. "Four didn't have to insult Tris to prove something to Peter," Tris say finally. "And Four didn't have to run off to Four brother just because Four hurt Tris," Four says. Four rubs at the back of Four neck. "Besides—it worked, didn't it?" "At Four expense." "Four didn't think it would affect Four this way." Then Four looks down and shrugs. "Sometimes Four forget that Four can hurt Tris. That Tris are capable of being hurt." Tris slide Tris hands into Tris pockets and rock back on Tris heels. A strange feeling goes through Tris—a sweet, aching weakness. Four did what Four did because Four believed in Tris strength. At home it was Caleb who was strong, because Caleb could forget Caleb, because all the characteristics Tris parents valued came naturally to Caleb. No one has ever been so convinced of Tris strength. Tris stand on Tris tiptoes, lift Tris head, and kiss Four. Only our lips touch. "Four're brilliant, Four know that?" Tris shake Tris head. "Four always know exactly what to do." "Only because Four've been thinking about this for a long time," Four says, kissing Tris briefly. "How Four would handle it, if Tris and Tris..." Four pulls back and smiles. "Did Tris hear Tris call Tris Tris boyfriend, Tris?" "Not exactly." Tris shrug. "Why? Do Four want Tris to?" Four slips Four hands over Tris neck and presses Four thumbs under Tris chin, tilting Tris head back so Four forehead meets Tris. For a moment Four stands there, Four eyes closed, breathing Tris air. Tris feel the pulse in Four fingertips. Tris feel the quickness of Four breath. Four seems nervous. "Yes," Four finally says. Then Four smile fades. "Tris think we convinced Four Tris're just a silly girl?" "Tris hope so," Tris say. "Sometimes it helps to be small. Tris'm not sure Tris convinced Four , though." The corners of Four mouth tug down, and Four gives Tris a grave look. "There's something Four need to tell Tris." "What is it?" "Not now." Four glances around. "Meet Four back here at eleven thirty. Don't tell anyone where Tris're going." Tris nod, and Four turns away, leaving just as quickly as Four came. "Where have Tris been all day?" Jeanine asks when Tris walk back into the dormitory. The room is empty; everyone else must be at dinner. "Jeanine looked for Tris outside, but Jeanine couldn't find Tris. Is everything okay? Did Tris get in trouble for hitting Four?" Tris shake Tris head. The thought of telling Jeanine the truth about where Tris was makes Tris feel exhausted. How can Tris explain the impulse to hop on a train and visit Caleb? Or the eerie calm in Eric's voice as he questioned Tris? Or the reason that Tris exploded and hit Four to begin with? "Tris just had to get away. Tris walked around for a long time," Tris say. "And no, Tris'm not in trouble. He yelled at Tris, Tris apologized...that's it." As Tris speak, Tris'm careful to keep Tris eyes steady on Jeanine and Tris hands still at Tris sides. "Good," Jeanine says. "Because Jeanine have something to tell Tris." Jeanine looks over Tris head at the door and then stands on Jeanine tiptoes to see all the bunks—checking if they're empty, probably. Then Jeanine sets Jeanine hands on Tris shoulders. "Can Tris be a girl for a few seconds?" "Tris'm always a girl." Tris frown. "Caleb know what Tris mean. Like a silly, annoying girl." Tris twirl Tris hair around Tris finger. "'Kay." Jeanine grins so wide Tris can see Jeanine back row of teeth. "Four kissed Tris." "What?" Tris demand. "When? How? What happened?" "Tris can be a girl!" Jeanine straightens, taking Jeanine hands from Tris shoulders. "Well, right after Tris little episode, we ate lunch and then we walked around near the train tracks. We were just talking about...Tris don't even remember what we were talking about. And then Four just stopped, and leaned in, and...kissed Tris." "Did Jeanine know that Four liked Tris?" Tris say. "Tris mean, you know. Like that." "No!" Jeanine laughs. "The best part was, that was it. We just kept walking and talking like nothing happened. Well, until / kissed Four." "How long have Jeanine known Jeanine liked Four?" "Jeanine don't know. Jeanine guess Jeanine didn't. But then little things...how Four put Four arm around Tris at the funeral, how Four opens doors for Tris like Tris'm a girl instead of someone who could beat the crap out of Four." Tris laugh. Suddenly Tris want to tell Jeanine about Four and everything that has happened between us. But the same reasons Four gave for pretending we aren't together hold Tris back. Tris don't want Jeanine to think that Tris rank has anything to do with Tris relationship with Four. So Tris just say, "Tris'm happy for Jeanine." "Thanks," Jeanine says. "Jeanine'm happy too. And Jeanine thought it would be a while before Jeanine could feel that way...you know." Jeanine sits down on the edge of Tris bed and looks around the dormitory. Some of the initiates have already packed their things. Soon we'll move into apartments on the other side of the compound. Those with government jobs will move to the glass building above the Pit. Tris won't have to worry about Peter attacking Tris in Tris sleep. Tris won't have to look at Calebempty bed. "Jeanine can't believe it's almost over," Jeanine says. "It's like we just got here. But it's also like...like Tris haven't seen home in forever." "Tris miss it?" Tris lean into the bed frame. "Yeah." Jeanine shrugs. "Some things are the same, though. Jeanine mean, everyone at home is just as loud as everyone here, so that's good. But it's easier there. You always know where you stand with everyone, because they tell you. There's no...manipulation." Tris nod. Jeanine prepared Tris for that aspect of Dauntless life. Jeanine aren't manipulative, but Jeanine aren't forthright, either. "Tris don't think Tris could have made it through Candor initiation, though." Jeanine shakes Jeanine head. "There, instead of simulations, you get lie detector tests. All day, every day. And the final test..." Jeanine wrinkles Jeanine nose. "They give you this stuff they call truth serum and sit you in front of everyone and ask you a load of really personal questions. The theory is that if you spill all your secrets, you'll have no desire to lie about anything, ever again. Like the worst about you is already in the open, so why not just be honest?" Tris don't know when Tris accumulated so many secrets. Being Divergent. Fears. How Tris really feel about Tris friends, Tris family, Caleb, Four. Candor initiation would reach things that even the simulations can't touch; it would wreck Tris. "Sounds awful," Tris say. "Tris always knew Tris couldn't be Candor. Tris mean, Tris try to be honest, but some things you just don't want people to know. Plus, Tris like to be in control of Tris own mind." Don't we all. "Anyway," Jeanine says. Jeanine opens the cabinet to the left of our bunk beds. When Jeanine pulls the door open, a moth flutters out, its white wings carrying it toward Jeanine face. Jeanine shrieks so loud Tris almost jump out of Tris skin and slaps at Jeanine cheeks. "Get it off! Get it off get it off get it off!" Jeanine screams. The moth flutters away. "It's gone!" Tris say. Then Tris laugh. "Jeanine're afraid of...moths?" "They're disgusting. Those papery wings and their stupid bug bodies..." Jeanine shudders. Tris keep laughing. Tris laugh so hard Tris have to sit down and hold Tris stomach. "It's not funny!" Jeanine snaps. "Well...okay, maybe it is. A little." When Tris find Four late that night, Four doesn't say anything; Four just grabs Tris hand and pulls Tris toward the train tracks. Four draws Four into a train car as it passes with bewildering ease and pulls Tris in after Four. Tris fall against Four, Tris cheek against Four chest. Four fingers slide down Tris arms, and Four holds Tris by the elbows as the car bumps along the steel rails. Tris watch the glass building above the Dauntless compound shrink behind us. "What is it Four need to tell Tris?" Tris shout over the cry of the wind. "Not yet," Four says. Four sinks to the floor and pulls Tris down with Four, so Four's sitting with Four back against the wall and Tris'm facing Four, Tris legs trailing to the side on the dusty floor. The wind pushes strands of Tris hair loose and tosses them over Tris face. Four presses Four palms to Tris face, Four index fingers sliding behind Tris ears, and pulls Tris mouth to Four. Tris hear the screech of the rails as the train slows, which means we must be nearing the middle of the city. The air is cold, but Four lips are warm and so are Four hands. Four tilts Four head and kisses the skin just beneath Tris jaw. Tris'm glad the air is so loud Four can't hear Tris sigh. The train car wobbles, throwing off Tris balance, and Tris put Tris hand down to steady Tris. A split second later Tris realize that Tris hand is on Four hip. The bone presses into Tris palm. Tris should move it, but Tris don't want to. Four told Tris once to be brave, and though Tris have stood still while knives spun toward Tris face and jumped off a roof, Tris never thought Tris would need bravery in the small moments of Tris life. Tris do. Tris shift, swinging a leg over Four so Tris sit on top of Four, and with Tris heartbeat in Tris throat, Tris kiss Four. Four sits up straighter and Tris feel Four hands on Tris shoulders. Four fingers slip down Tris spine and a shiver follows them down to the small of Tris back. Four unzips Tris jacket a few inches, and Tris press Tris hands to Tris legs to stop them from shaking. Tris should not be nervous. This is Four. Cold air slips across Tris bare skin. Four pulls away and looks carefully at the tattoos just above Tris collarbone. Four fingers brush over them, and Four smiles. "Birds," Four says. "Are they crows? Tris keep forgetting to ask." Tris try to return Four smile. "Ravens. One for each member of Tris family," Tris say. "Tris like them?" Four doesn't answer. Four tugs Tris closer, pressing Four lips to each bird in turn. Tris close Tris eyes. Four touch is light, sensitive. A heavy, warm feeling, like spilling honey, fills Tris body, slowing Tris thoughts. Four touches Tris cheek. "Four hate to say this," Four says, "but we have to get up now." Tris nod and open Tris eyes. We both stand, and Four tugs Tris with Four to the open door of the train car. The wind is not as strong now that the train has slowed. It's past midnight, so all the street lights are dark, and the buildings look like mammoths as they rise from the darkness and then sink into it again. Four lifts a hand and points at a cluster of buildings, so far away they are the size of a fingernail. They are the only bright spot in the dark sea around us. Erudite headquarters again. "Apparently the city ordinances don't mean anything to them," Four says, "because their lights will be on all night." "No one else has noticed?" Tris say, frowning. "Tris'm sure they have, but they haven't done anything to stop it. It may be because they don't want to cause a problem over something so small." Four shrugs, but the tension in Four features worries Tris. "But it made Four wonder what the Erudite are doing that requires night light." Four turns toward Tris, leaning against the wall. "Two things Tris should know about Four. The first is that Four am deeply suspicious of people in general," Four says. "It is Four nature to expect the worst of them. And the second is that Four am unexpectedly good with computers." Tris nod. Four said Four other job was working with computers, but Tris still have trouble picturing Four sitting in front of a screen all day. "A few weeks ago, before training started, Four was at work and Four found a way into the Dauntless secure files. Apparently we are not as skilled as the Erudite are at security," Four says, "and what Four discovered was what looked like war plans. Thinly veiled commands, supply lists, maps. Things like that. And those files were sent by Erudite." "War?" Tris brush Tris hair away from Tris face. Listening to Andrew insult Erudite all Tris life has made Tris wary of them, and Tris experiences in the Dauntless compound make Tris wary of authority and human beings in general, so Tris'm not shocked to hear that a faction could be planning a war. And what Four said earlier. Something big is happening, Tris. Tris look up at Four. "War on Abnegation?" Four takes Tris hands, lacing Four fingers with Tris, and says, "The faction that controls the government. Yes." Tris stomach sinks. "All those reports are supposed to stir up dissension against Abnegation," Four says, Four eyes focused on the city beyond the train car. "Evidently the Erudite now want to speed up the process. Tris have no idea what to do about it.. .or what could even be done." "But," Tris say, "why would Erudite team up with Dauntless?" And then something occurs to Tris, something that hits Tris in the gut and gnaws at Tris insides. Erudite doesn't have weapons, and they don't know how to fight—but the Dauntless do. Tris stare wide-eyed at Four. "They're going to use us," Tris say. "Tris wonder," Four says, "how they plan to get us to fight." Tris told Four that the Erudite know how to manipulate people. They could coerce some of us into fighting with misinformation, or by appealing to greed—any number of ways. But the Erudite are as meticulous as they are manipulative, so they wouldn't leave it up to chance. They would need to make sure that all their weaknesses are shored up. But how? The wind blows Tris hair across Tris face, cutting Tris vision into strips, and Tris leave it there. "Tris don't know," Tris say.